risk_id,risk_category,risk_description,probability,impact,risk_score,priority_level,affected_tasks,root_cause,mitigation_strategy,contingency_plan,monitoring_trigger,owner,due_date,status
RISK-001,Technical,"Flawed implementation of the data mapping (hydration/persistence) between the rich `PlayerProfile` domain aggregate and the flat Mongoose persistence model, leading to data corruption or loss upon saving or retrieving.",4,5,20,High,"WI-007, WI-012, WI-024","Complexity of manually translating between an object-oriented domain model and a document-based persistence model, which are not perfectly aligned.",Pair programming and rigorous code reviews on all repository and mapping logic. A proof-of-concept (PoC) for the mapping should be built and approved before implementing the full repository. Create clear `toPersistence()` and `fromDomain()` mapping functions.,Allocate dedicated refactoring time in a subsequent sprint to fix mapping issues. If problems are severe, evaluate a more sophisticated ORM/ODM or a library that automates the mapping.,Integration tests show data inconsistency after a save-and-retrieve cycle. Unit tests for the repository become overly complex and brittle.,Tech Lead,2024-09-15,Identified
RISK-002,Resource,"Developer skill gap in Domain-Driven Design (DDD) leads to incorrect implementation of aggregates, entities, and value objects, violating core business rules and creating significant, hard-to-fix technical debt.",3,5,15,High,"EPIC-002, WI-007, WI-012, WI-022","Assuming team proficiency in a complex architectural pattern without prior training or verification.",Conduct a mandatory team-wide workshop on DDD principles before starting EPIC-002. Enforce pair programming for the implementation of the first aggregate. The Tech Lead must perform strict code reviews on all domain layer pull requests.,Budget for an external DDD consultant to perform a 2-day code review and workshop. Schedule a 'refactoring sprint' after the initial domain implementation to correct architectural errors.,Pull request comments frequently highlight misunderstandings of aggregate boundaries or invariants. Writing unit tests for domain logic proves to be extremely difficult.,Tech Lead,2024-09-01,Identified
RISK-003,Quality,"Unit tests for the domain layer fail to adequately cover edge cases and invariant enforcement (e.g., testing that debiting currency below zero throws an exception), allowing critical business rule bugs to reach production.",3,5,15,High,"WI-022, WI-005, WI-007","Developers focusing only on ""happy path"" testing to meet deadlines, neglecting negative test cases and business rule validation.",Enforce a strict code review checklist that requires specific tests for all business rule invariants and exception-throwing conditions. Configure the CI/CD pipeline to fail if test coverage for the `src/domain` directory drops below 95%.,If a critical domain bug is found in production, halt new feature development to conduct a test-writing sprint, focusing on adding the missing test cases for the entire domain layer before fixing the bug.,A bug is discovered in staging or production that violates a core business rule. Code review shows new domain logic being added without corresponding negative test cases.,QA Lead,2024-09-30,Identified
RISK-004,Quality,"Integration tests using `mongodb-memory-server` become flaky or slow, eroding team confidence and leading to them being ignored or disabled, which significantly increases the risk of regressions in the API.",4,4,16,High,"WI-024, EPIC-007","Complexity of managing the in-memory database lifecycle within the Jest test runner, leading to race conditions or memory leaks.",Implement a robust, global test setup file to manage the `mongodb-memory-server` lifecycle (start once before all tests, clear data between each test, stop after all tests). Monitor test execution time in the CI pipeline and set a performance budget.,If flakiness persists, switch to using a dedicated, containerized MongoDB instance (via Docker Compose) for the test environment, even though it may be slightly slower. Allocate time to refactor the most problematic tests.,The CI build fails intermittently on integration test steps with no code changes. The total time for `npm test` increases by more than 30% over a sprint.,Dev Team,2024-10-15,Identified
RISK-005,Timeline,"The effort for high-complexity tasks (Aggregate design, Mongoose schema, Repository implementation, Integration testing) is underestimated, causing a cascade of delays across dependent epics.",4,3,12,Medium,"WI-007, WI-011, WI-012, WI-024","Optimism bias in estimating complex, foundational work with many unknowns and dependencies.",Break down high-complexity work items into smaller sub-tasks during sprint planning. Use spike/investigation tasks to de-risk technical unknowns before committing to an estimate. Add a 25% buffer to the estimates for these specific tasks.,Identify non-critical features or endpoints that can be de-scoped or moved to a later release to protect the core functionality deadline. Approve focused overtime if the delivery date is critical and cannot be moved.,A high-complexity task exceeds its estimated time by more than 40%. A developer raises concerns about unforeseen complexity during implementation that was not caught by a spike.,Project Manager,2024-09-01,Identified
RISK-006,Operational,"Queries throughout the application fail to properly filter out soft-deleted (`isDeleted: true`) documents, causing ""deleted"" player data to leak into API responses or business logic calculations.",3,4,12,Medium,"WI-011, WI-012, EPIC-004, EPIC-005","Forgetting to manually add the `{ isDeleted: false }` filter to every single read query is a common and easy-to-make error.",Use Mongoose query middleware or a default scope on the `PlayerProfileSchema` to automatically add the `isDeleted: { $ne: true }` filter to all `find`, `findOne`, `count`, etc. queries. This makes the filtering implicit and less error-prone.,If data leakage is discovered, create an emergency patch to implement the middleware/scope. Write a script to analyze the database for any data inconsistencies caused by operating on soft-deleted documents.,A QA test finds a deleted user's profile is still accessible via any API endpoint. A user reports seeing data they previously deleted.,Dev Team,2024-09-20,Identified
RISK-007,Technical,"The 'latest timestamp wins' conflict resolution logic in `resolveSaveConflict` is insufficient for near-simultaneous updates from different devices, leading to silent data loss for the user (e.g., one client's inventory update is overwritten by another's setting update).",3,3,9,Medium,"WI-007, WI-014","Oversimplification of a complex distributed data synchronization problem, choosing a simple solution that doesn't cover all realistic use cases.",Refine the business requirements to define acceptable data loss. Implement more granular merge logic that compares sub-entities (e.g., Inventory, Settings) separately. Log all conflict resolution events to monitor their frequency and nature.,If user complaints about data loss are frequent, prioritize implementing a more sophisticated three-way merge strategy. Temporarily add logging that captures both client and server state during a conflict to aid debugging.,User support tickets report lost progress or settings changes after playing on a new device. Analytics show a high number of sync requests for the same user occurring within a small time window (< 10 seconds).,Product Owner,2024-09-25,Identified
RISK-008,External,"The external authentication service is unavailable, or the `JWT_SECRET` is misconfigured in an environment, causing all authenticated API endpoints to fail and blocking all user activity.",2,4,8,Medium,"WI-021, EPIC-005","Hard dependency on an external system and a manually configured secret that are outside the direct control of the service's deployment pipeline.",Implement a `/health` check endpoint that verifies the presence and basic format of the `JWT_SECRET` from the environment. Implement clear logging in the auth middleware to distinguish between missing tokens, invalid tokens, and internal configuration errors.,Develop a runbook for diagnosing and resolving auth configuration issues. Create a mock JWT generation script for local development and testing to decouple from the live auth service during the development phase.,Application logs are flooded with errors related to 'jwt secret not configured' or 'invalid signature'. All authenticated endpoints begin returning 401 or 500 errors after a new deployment.,DevOps Team,2024-10-01,Identified
RISK-009,Configuration,"Required environment variables are missing or incorrect in a deployed environment (e.g., wrong `MONGODB_URI`), causing the application to fail at startup or behave unpredictably.",4,3,12,Medium,"WI-003, WI-010, WI-018","Manual configuration of environment variables is error-prone. The `.env` file used in development is not used in production, creating a potential for discrepancy.",Use a schema validation library (like Zod) within the config module (`WI-003`) to validate the environment variables at startup, ensuring they exist and are of the correct type. The app must refuse to start if validation fails. Maintain a version-controlled `.env.example` file.,Store environment variables in a secure, centralized parameter store (e.g., AWS Parameter Store, HashiCorp Vault) and inject them into the runtime environment via the CI/CD pipeline, not manually.,The application fails to start immediately after deployment. The startup logs show an error message from the config module about a missing or invalid environment variable.,DevOps Team,2024-09-05,Identified
RISK-010,Security,"The soft-delete implementation for GDPR requests (`WI-015`) is purely logical, and no process exists for eventual hard deletion, posing a long-term compliance risk if the data is not permanently erased after a retention period.",2,4,8,Medium,"WI-012, WI-015","Focusing on the immediate feature (soft delete) without planning for the full, long-term compliance lifecycle of the data.",Define a data retention policy (e.g., PII is hard-deleted 30 days after a soft-delete request). Create a scheduled, automated job (e.g., a cron job) that runs periodically to find documents marked for deletion and permanently removes them from the database.,If an audit reveals this gap, manually create and run a one-off script to purge the old, soft-deleted data. Immediately prioritize the development of the automated hard-deletion job.,A periodic compliance audit finds that PII for deleted users still exists in the database beyond the specified retention period. The number of documents with `isDeleted: true` grows indefinitely.,Compliance Officer,2024-10-30,Identified