risk_id,risk_category,risk_description,probability,impact,risk_score,priority_level,affected_tasks,root_cause,mitigation_strategy,contingency_plan,monitoring_trigger,owner,due_date,status
RISK-001,Operational,"Releasing a new version of the shared library with breaking changes without a corresponding major version bump (violating SemVer), breaking all consuming services.",3,5,15,High,"WI-101, WI-504, Deployment Process","Human error in manual versioning and lack of enforced standards for a critical shared dependency.",,"Establish a strict PR review process focused on identifying breaking changes. Use an automated tool like `semantic-release` in the CI/CD pipeline to manage versioning and changelog generation based on commit message conventions (e.g., Conventional Commits).","Immediately deprecate the incorrectly versioned package on the NPM registry using `npm deprecate`. Publish a new, correctly versioned package. Communicate urgently to all consuming teams about the issue and the required fix.","Consuming services' CI/CD pipelines fail with type errors or runtime errors after updating the shared library.",Dev Lead,Pre-Release,Open
RISK-002,Quality,"The Shared Kernel pattern creates tight coupling, causing the library to become a development and deployment bottleneck. A change requires all consumers to update and redeploy.",4,4,16,High,All,"The architectural choice of a shared kernel inherently links service deployment schedules. Scope creep can bloat the kernel, exacerbating the issue.",,"Establish a strict governance model for what belongs in the kernel (truly universal, stable, cross-cutting concerns only). Enforce a ""zero breaking changes"" policy on minor/patch versions. For new features, consider a plugin model or alternative patterns over adding to the kernel.","If the kernel becomes a bottleneck, initiate a formal process to refactor specific functionalities out into their own dedicated, more focused libraries or independent services. Prioritize decoupling the most volatile domains first.","Multiple teams report being blocked waiting for a change in the shared library. Deployment calendars show frequent ""all-hands"" deployments to roll out a library update.",Architect,Ongoing,Open
RISK-003,External,"A third-party dependency (e.g., mongoose, winston) is found to have a security vulnerability, which is then inherited by all consuming microservices.",3,5,15,High,WI-101,"Reliance on open-source software, which can have undiscovered vulnerabilities.",,"Integrate an automated vulnerability scanner (e.g., Snyk, Dependabot, `npm audit --audit-level=high`) into the CI pipeline. The pipeline build must fail if high or critical severity vulnerabilities are detected without an explicit exception.","Upon alert, create a high-priority task to update the dependency to a patched version. Assess the blast radius. If a direct patch is not available, investigate workarounds. Release a patched version of the shared library and mandate an immediate upgrade for all consuming services.","Alert from an automated vulnerability scanner integrated into the CI/CD pipeline or repository.",Security Lead,Pre-Release,Open
RISK-004,Technical,"The integration tests for the database connection utility are flaky or fail to cover critical failure/recovery scenarios, allowing bugs to pass into production.",4,4,16,High,WI-503,"Complexity of managing the lifecycle of an in-memory database (`mongodb-memory-server`) within a test runner, leading to race conditions and unreliable setup/teardown.",,"Structure tests to be fully isolated. Use Jest's `beforeEach`/`afterEach` to ensure a clean state for every test case. Explicitly test failure scenarios like connection refusal and recovery after disconnection, not just the happy path.","If tests prove too flaky for CI, quarantine them to run in a separate, non-blocking job while a high-priority tech debt ticket is created to fix them. Increase manual QA on features in consuming services that rely on startup connectivity until tests are stable.","CI builds fail intermittently on the same integration test. Production issues related to DB connectivity are discovered despite passing tests.",Dev Lead,During Development,Open
RISK-005,Technical,"The database connection utility lacks robust error handling for network interruptions or DB downtime (e.g., no retry logic), causing services to crash or fail to recover without a manual restart.",3,4,12,Medium,WI-202,"Oversimplified implementation that only considers the ""happy path"" initial connection and does not account for the unreliability of networks and external services.",,"Implement exponential backoff retry logic for the initial connection. Subscribe to Mongoose's `disconnected`, `reconnected`, and `error` events to accurately manage and log the connection state throughout the application's lifecycle.","If services are observed crashing, release an emergency patch version with improved connection event handling. Advise teams to implement liveness/readiness probes in their services that check the database connection state, allowing orchestrators (e.g., Kubernetes) to automatically restart unhealthy containers.",Services become unresponsive or crash during brief database maintenance or network blips. Logs show repeated connection errors without successful recovery.",Developer,During Development,Open
RISK-006,Quality,"Inadequate or outdated documentation (README, TSDoc) leads to misuse of library components, causing inconsistent implementations, subtle bugs, and repeated support questions from consuming teams.",4,3,12,Medium,"WI-505, All development tasks","Documentation is treated as an afterthought rather than a core part of the feature development process.",,"Treat documentation as a first-class deliverable. Mandate TSDoc blocks for all exported members as part of the Definition of Done. Require that the README includes clear, copy-pasteable usage examples for every major feature, and enforce this during PR reviews.","Host a brown-bag/workshop session for backend developers to demonstrate the library's features and best practices. Create a dedicated Slack channel for library support and use questions to identify and improve weak spots in the documentation.",Repeated questions in team chat channels about how to use a library feature. Code reviews of consuming services show inconsistent or incorrect usage of the shared library.",Dev Lead,During Development,Open
RISK-007,Technical,"The compiled TypeScript type definition files (`.d.ts`) are missing, incomplete, or incorrect, leading to a poor developer experience and compilation failures in consuming microservices.",3,3,9,Medium,WI-102,"Misconfiguration in `tsconfig.json`, or a faulty build/publish script that fails to include the `dist` directory or generates malformed declaration files.",,"Add a verification step in the CI pipeline that runs after the build. This script should check for the existence and non-zero size of key files like `dist/index.js` and `dist/index.d.ts`. Create a small ""smoke test"" project in the repo that attempts to install and compile against the locally built package.","If a bad package is published, immediately deprecate it and publish a patch release with the corrected build artifacts. Post-mortems should be conducted to determine why the CI verification step failed to catch the issue.","Developers report TypeScript errors in their IDEs (`'Could not find a declaration file for module...'`) or during compilation immediately after updating the package.",Developer,During Development,Open
RISK-008,Technical,"The chosen logging configuration, especially for production, creates a performance bottleneck in high-throughput services due to synchronous I/O or complex object serialization.",2,4,8,Medium,WI-201,"Not performance testing the logger under realistic load. The default Winston transports might not be optimized for high-performance, asynchronous logging.",,"Use asynchronous transports for Winston in production. Conduct load testing specifically targeting the logger's impact on event loop latency and CPU usage before releasing v1.0. Document best practices, advising developers to avoid logging large objects in frequently called functions.","Release a patch version with a more performant logger configuration (e.g., switching to a lighter transport like `pino` or adjusting serialization). Provide guidance to teams on how to temporarily reduce log levels via the `LOG_LEVEL` environment variable to mitigate immediate performance issues.",Application Performance Monitoring (APM) tools show high event loop latency or high CPU usage within logging functions of consuming services.",Dev Lead,During Development,Open