risk_id,risk_category,risk_description,probability,impact,risk_score,priority_level,affected_tasks,root_cause,mitigation_strategy,contingency_plan,monitoring_trigger,owner,due_date,status
RISK-001,Technical,"Incompatible dependency versions are installed, leading to runtime errors or security vulnerabilities. The use of broad version ranges in `package.json` can cause `npm install` to pull a new minor/patch version with breaking changes.",3,4,12,Medium,"WI-101, WI-103, WI-201","Lack of strict dependency versioning control; reliance on semantic versioning which can be violated by package maintainers.",Use `npm ci` in build pipelines which strictly adheres to `package-lock.json`. Regularly run `npm audit` and use tools like Snyk or Dependabot to scan for vulnerabilities and incompatibilities.,"Allocate specific time in sprint planning for dependency conflict resolution tasks. Maintain a list of known-good dependency sets.",Build failure after a dependency update; `npm audit` reports a high-severity vulnerability.,Tech Lead,2024-09-15,Open
RISK-002,Security,"The `JWT_SECRET` environment variable is weak, improperly stored, or accidentally committed to version control, allowing attackers to forge valid authentication tokens.",2,5,10,Medium,"WI-103, WI-501","Developer error; inadequate gitignore configuration; lack of a formal secrets management policy.",Ensure `.env` is in `.gitignore` from project inception. Implement pre-commit hooks that scan for secrets (e.g., git-secrets). For production, use a dedicated secrets management service (e.g., AWS Secrets Manager, HashiCorp Vault).,"Immediate secret rotation protocol. Perform security audit on logs to detect unauthorized access using forged tokens. Isolate affected services.",A secret is detected in a commit during a PR review; a security scan fails; an unauthorized but valid-looking JWT is observed in logs.,DevOps Engineer,2024-09-10,Open
RISK-003,Operational,"The application fails to handle database connection drops and reconnections gracefully, leading to service downtime or a crash loop when the database is temporarily unavailable.",3,4,12,Medium,"WI-203, WI-301, WI-303","Incomplete error handling in the Mongoose connection logic; no process manager to handle application crashes.",Implement robust connection logic with retry mechanisms and exponential backoff. Use a process manager like PM2 or run the application within a container orchestrator (e.g., Kubernetes) that handles restarts automatically.,"Have a documented runbook for manually restarting the service and checking database health. Configure alerts for service unavailability.",Application logs show repeated database connection errors; monitoring alert (e.g., from Prometheus) for high rate of 5xx errors or service unavailability.,Tech Lead,2024-09-30,Open
RISK-004,Quality,"The integration test setup proves to be more complex and time-consuming than estimated, delaying the writing of actual tests and potentially leading to a reduction in test coverage.",4,3,12,Medium,"WI-602, WI-603","Unforeseen compatibility issues between `mongodb-memory-server`, Jest, Mongoose, and the Node.js version. The task itself is marked as ""High"" complexity.",Create a small Proof-of-Concept for the test setup early in the project. Alternatively, use Docker Compose to run a real MongoDB instance for testing to ensure environment consistency.,Fall back to testing against a shared, but regularly cleaned, test database instance. Accept a lower level of test isolation temporarily to unblock test writing.,The test setup task (`WI-602`) exceeds its estimated effort by more than 50% without a working solution.,QA Lead,2024-10-15,Open
RISK-005,Technical,"The specified Layered Architecture is not strictly enforced, causing logic to bleed between layers (e.g., controller directly accessing a Mongoose model). This increases coupling and technical debt, making the system hard to test and maintain.",4,4,16,High,"WI-403, WI-505, WI-303","Deadline pressure leading to shortcuts; lack of team discipline or clear understanding of architectural boundaries.",Implement strict pull request review checklists that specifically check for layer violations. Use ESLint rules (e.g., `eslint-plugin-import`) to prevent illegal imports between layers (e.g., `api` layer cannot import from `data` layer).,"Schedule dedicated refactoring sprints to address architectural debt identified in code reviews. Document any approved exceptions to the pattern.",A pull request is submitted where a controller method contains business logic or directly calls a repository; a service handles `req` or `res` objects.,Tech Lead,2024-09-20,Open
RISK-006,Resource,"The ""High"" complexity of testing tasks creates a key-person dependency on a single developer with strong testing skills. If this person is unavailable, the QA phase is delayed and quality is jeopardized.",3,3,9,Medium,"WI-601, WI-602, WI-603","Uneven distribution of specialized skills within the team; project planning that assigns all complex tasks to one individual.",Enforce pair programming for all ""High"" complexity testing tasks. Ensure documentation for the test setup (`WI-602`) is exceptionally clear and can be followed by any team member. Hold knowledge-sharing sessions on testing patterns.,"Bring in an external QA consultant for a short-term engagement. Re-prioritize features to allow another developer time to ramp up on the testing framework.",The project schedule shows one developer as the assignee for `WI-601`, `WI-602`, and `WI-603`.,Project Manager,2024-10-01,Open
RISK-007,Operational,"Configuration drift between local development (`.env`, `docker-compose.yml`) and production environments causes ""it works on my machine"" issues and difficult-to-diagnose production failures.",4,3,12,Medium,"WI-103, WI-702, WI-701","Manual and separate management of environment-specific configurations; lack of a single source of truth for configuration values.",Automate configuration management using tools that support multiple environments (e.g., variable substitution in CI/CD pipelines). Keep `.env.example` file (`WI-104`) as the canonical list of all required variables, and validate it in the CI pipeline.,"Establish a ""Configuration Review"" step in the deployment process. Have a clear runbook for diagnosing and rolling back configuration-related deployment failures.",A bug is reported in production that cannot be reproduced in the local Docker Compose environment; a deployment fails due to a missing environment variable.,DevOps Engineer,2024-10-10,Open
RISK-008,Quality,"The Joi validation schema is not strict enough (e.g., using `Joi.object()` instead of a detailed schema for `generationParameters`), allowing malformed or malicious payloads to pass validation, potentially leading to NoSQL injection or unhandled server errors.",3,5,15,High,"WI-502, WI-504, WI-505","Under-specified requirements for complex object structures; overlooking security implications of flexible validation.",Enforce a policy that all object schemas must use `.unknown(false)` to disallow keys not explicitly defined. Conduct security-focused code reviews on all validation logic. Define the nested structure of `generationParameters` and `solutionPath` within the Joi schema.,"If a vulnerability is found, immediately deploy a hotfix with a stricter validation schema. Analyze logs to determine the extent of any data corruption or malicious access. Add a regression test for the specific exploit vector.",An unhandled exception occurs in the service layer and is traced back to an unexpected data format in the request body; penetration testing reveals a potential injection vector.,Tech Lead,2024-09-25,Open
RISK-009,Performance,"The multi-stage production Dockerfile (`WI-701`) is not structured optimally, failing to leverage Docker's layer caching effectively. This leads to slow CI/CD pipeline builds, which delays deployments and reduces developer productivity.",3,2,6,Low,"WI-701, EPIC-700","Incorrect ordering of commands in the Dockerfile, such as copying source code before installing dependencies.",Structure the Dockerfile to copy `package.json` and `package-lock.json` first, run `npm ci`, and only then copy the rest of the application source code. Use a comprehensive `.dockerignore` file.,"Allocate a small time-box for a developer to optimize the Dockerfile if build times become a consistent complaint.",The CI pipeline build time for the application image consistently exceeds a defined threshold (e.g., 10 minutes).,DevOps Engineer,2024-10-20,Open
RISK-010,Quality,"Test data management for integration tests is inadequate, leading to flaky or non-repeatable tests. Tests might interfere with each other by not properly cleaning up created data in the test database.",3,3,9,Medium,"WI-602, WI-603","Lack of a clear strategy for resetting database state between test files or individual tests.",Implement `beforeEach` and `afterAll` hooks in the Jest setup (`tests/setup.ts`). The `beforeEach` hook should clear all relevant collections in the test database. The `afterAll` hook should close the database connection.,"Temporarily run tests serially (`--runInBand`) to diagnose state leakage issues. If cleanup is too slow, refactor tests to use unique identifiers to avoid collisions.",An integration test passes when run in isolation but fails when run as part of the full test suite.,QA Lead,2024-10-18,Open