risk_id,risk_category,risk_description,probability,impact,risk_score,priority_level,affected_tasks,root_cause,mitigation_strategy,contingency_plan,monitoring_trigger,owner,due_date,status
R-TEC-001,Technical,"The flexible `payload` field (`Schema.Types.Mixed`) allows for unstructured data, which can lead to performance degradation if clients send excessively large objects or cause data analysis challenges downstream.",4,3,12,Medium,"WI-ANA-004, WI-ANA-008","The requirement for a flexible payload schema prevents strict type enforcement at the database level, creating a potential for abuse or misuse.",Implement a middleware that checks the byte size of the entire request body and the approximate size of the payload field. Add application-level logging for events with unusually large payloads.,If large payloads become an issue, introduce a stricter validation rule in Joi to limit the number of keys or the depth of the payload object. A schema migration might be needed to clean up historical data.,Alerts on logs indicating payload size exceeds a defined threshold (e.g., 10KB). Monitoring of average document size in the MongoDB collection.,Dev Team,TBD,Open
R-QUA-001,Quality,"The Joi validation schema (`WI-ANA-008`) and the Mongoose model schema (`WI-ANA-004`) are defined and maintained in separate files, creating a risk of them drifting out of sync. This could lead to data passing API validation but failing database validation.",4,3,12,Medium,"WI-ANA-004, WI-ANA-008","Two separate sources of truth for the data model's validation rules (one for application input, one for database persistence).","Create an integration test (`WI-ANA-015`) that specifically validates a complex object against Joi and then attempts to save it, ensuring both layers are synchronized. Consider code-generation tools or shared types to reduce manual sync effort.","If drift is detected, an emergency patch will be required to align the schemas. The priority will be to make the Joi schema stricter to prevent bad data from entering the system, followed by a data cleanup script if necessary.",The integration test for schema synchronization fails in the CI pipeline. An increase in MongoDB validation errors in production logs.,Dev Team,TBD,Open
R-TEC-002,Technical,"The direct-to-database architecture may become a performance bottleneck under high event load, leading to high latency or request timeouts. The SDS explicitly identifies this as a short-term design.",3,4,12,Medium,"WI-ANA-005, WI-ANA-007, WI-ANA-012","The architecture prioritizes simplicity for initial implementation by omitting a message queue, making the request-response cycle dependent on synchronous database write performance.","Conduct load testing as part of the QA cycle (`WI-ANA-015`) to establish the performance ceiling. Ensure the service layer (`WI-ANA-007`) is fully decoupled from the repository, making a future swap to a message queue easier, as intended by the design.","If load testing reveals a low performance ceiling, activate a pre-planned task to implement a message queue (e.g., AWS SQS). The controller would publish to the queue, and a separate worker process would consume messages and use the existing repository to save data.",API P95 response time for the `/events` endpoint exceeds a defined threshold (e.g., 500ms). The number of active database connections spikes.,Tech Lead,TBD,Open
R-QUA-002,Quality,"Using `{ ordered: false }` for `insertMany` (`WI-ANA-005`) means that if one document in a batch fails validation, others can still be inserted. The client receives a generic 202 Accepted, leading to silent, partial data loss.",3,4,12,Medium,"WI-ANA-005, WI-ANA-010","The `insertMany` operation with `{ ordered: false }` can result in a `MongoBulkWriteError` which is not a simple thrown exception for the entire operation, requiring specific handling to detect partial failure.","In the `RawAnalyticsEventRepository`, wrap the `insertMany` call in a try/catch block. Specifically catch `MongoBulkWriteError` and log the details of the individual failed documents as critical errors for monitoring.","Create a runbook for investigating partial batch failures. If critical data is being lost frequently, temporarily switch to `{ ordered: true }` to make failures louder (rejecting the whole batch) while the root cause is fixed.","Log monitoring alert is triggered for ""Partial batch insertion failure"" or `MongoBulkWriteError`. A discrepancy is found between client-sent event counts and server-stored event counts.",Dev Team,TBD,Open
R-TIM-001,Timeline,"The high complexity and dependencies of tasks in the final epics (Testing, Deployment) like `WI-ANA-015` and `WI-ANA-017` are often underestimated, potentially delaying the project completion date.",3,3,9,Medium,"WI-ANA-015, WI-ANA-016, WI-ANA-017","Integration testing, containerization, and CI/CD setup involve complex interactions between different tools and environments (Jest, Supertest, Docker, GitHub Actions) and are prone to unforeseen issues.","Allocate dedicated time for ""spikes"" or proof-of-concept work for the testing and CI/CD setup early in the project. Begin work on the CI pipeline (`WI-ANA-017`) in parallel with feature development, rather than leaving it until the end.","If delays occur, descope non-critical tests or CI features (e.g., advanced deployment strategies) for the initial release, creating follow-up tasks to address them post-launch. Re-prioritize to ensure a minimum viable product can be deployed.",Key tasks `WI-ANA-015` or `WI-ANA-017` are not completed by their scheduled date. The CI pipeline remains unstable or red for more than one day.,Project Manager,TBD,Open
R-TEC-003,Technical,"The compound index on `{ eventTimestamp: -1, eventName: 1 }` is crucial for performance but may not be optimal for all future query patterns. An incorrect or missing index could lead to slow queries and high database CPU usage.",2,4,8,Medium,"WI-ANA-004","Query patterns may evolve as data analysis needs change, and the initial index was based on an assumption of time-based queries.","During development, use MongoDB's `explain()` command on all anticipated queries to verify that the correct indexes are being used. Document the intended query patterns that the index is designed to support.",If a new, slow query pattern emerges in production, a new index must be created. This must be done carefully (e.g., as a background build in MongoDB) to avoid locking the collection and causing an outage.,MongoDB slow query log shows queries against the `rawanalyticsevents` collection that are not using the specified index. Database CPU utilization exceeds 80% for a sustained period.,Dev Team,TBD,Open
R-OPE-001,Operational,"The CI pipeline (`WI-ANA-017`) and Docker build (`WI-ANA-016`) are critical for deployment. A failure or misconfiguration in this pipeline could prevent new versions from being deployed or, worse, deploy a broken application.",3,5,15,High,"WI-ANA-016, WI-ANA-017","Automation pipelines are complex systems with many dependencies (base images, build tools, secrets). A single point of failure can halt the entire delivery process.","Implement pipeline tests (e.g., linting the Dockerfile and CI YAML). Enforce branch protection rules that require the CI pipeline to pass before code can be merged to the main branch. Use a multi-environment deployment strategy (dev, staging, prod) to catch issues before they hit production.",Maintain a manual deployment runbook as a fallback. If the pipeline is down, an engineer can use the runbook to build and deploy the container manually. The ability to easily roll back to a previously known-good container tag is essential.,The CI build for the main branch fails. A deployed version fails its health checks immediately after a rollout.,Dev Team Lead,TBD,Open
R-RES-001,Resource,"The project requires a mix of specific skills (TypeScript, Mongoose, Joi, Docker, CI/CD). A skills gap in any of these areas on the development team could lead to poor implementation quality, security vulnerabilities, or schedule delays.",2,3,6,Low,"WI-ANA-001, WI-ANA-005, WI-ANA-015, WI-ANA-017","The technology stack is modern and diverse, and not all developers may have deep expertise across the entire stack.","Promote pair programming, especially on complex tasks like the Dockerfile (`WI-ANA-016`) and CI pipeline (`WI-ANA-017`). Conduct internal knowledge-sharing sessions and thorough code reviews to spread knowledge and enforce best practices.",Allocate budget for external training or expert consultation if a critical skills gap is identified. Adjust task assignments to align with team members' strengths.",Code reviews repeatedly identify fundamental misunderstandings of a core technology. A developer reports being blocked due to lack of knowledge in a specific area.,Tech Lead,TBD,Open
R-EXT-001,External,"A critical vulnerability is discovered in a core dependency (e.g., Express, Mongoose), requiring an immediate, unplanned upgrade that could introduce breaking changes.",2,4,8,Medium,"WI-ANA-001","The project relies on open-source software, which is subject to security vulnerabilities discovered by the community.","Integrate an automated dependency scanning tool (e.g., `npm audit`, Snyk, GitHub Dependabot) into the CI pipeline. Regularly review and update dependencies as part of a scheduled maintenance routine, rather than waiting for critical alerts.","If a critical vulnerability is found, a ""hotfix"" branch will be created to address it immediately. The team will pause other work to test and deploy the patched version as quickly as possible.",An alert from a dependency scanning tool reports a high or critical severity vulnerability. A public CVE is announced for a dependency in use.,Security Lead,TBD,Open
R-QUA-003,Quality,"Integration tests using `mongodb-memory-server` (`WI-ANA-015`) can be flaky or slow in a CI environment, leading to false negatives (red builds) and a loss of trust in the pipeline.",3,3,9,Medium,"WI-ANA-015, WI-ANA-017","In-memory databases can have subtle differences from real databases and can be resource-intensive, causing race conditions or timeouts when multiple test suites run in parallel in a CI runner.","Design integration tests to be idempotent and isolated. Ensure proper setup and teardown logic to start/stop the memory server for each test suite. Configure Jest to run integration tests serially if parallel execution causes issues.","If flakiness persists, switch the integration test environment to use a dedicated Docker container running a real MongoDB instance, which provides higher fidelity at the cost of slightly slower test execution.",The CI pipeline fails intermittently on the integration test step with timeout errors or connection issues that cannot be reproduced locally.,Dev Team,TBD,Open
R-OPE-002,Operational,"The application is designed to fail fast if `MONGODB_URI` is missing, but other critical misconfigurations (e.g., an invalid CORS origin) might allow it to start but behave incorrectly.",2,3,6,Low,"WI-ANA-003, WI-ANA-012","The initial configuration check is only for the database URI, not for other essential or security-related environment variables.","Expand the configuration loader (`WI-ANA-003`) to validate the format or presence of other critical variables (e.g., validate that `CORS_ORIGIN` is a valid URL or wildcard). Log all loaded configuration values (except secrets) at startup for easier debugging.","If a configuration-related bug is found in production, the immediate action is to correct the environment variable and restart the service. The long-term fix is to add a validation check for that variable to the startup sequence.",The service is running but rejecting valid cross-origin requests from the game client. The application fails to connect to other services due to misconfigured URLs.,Dev Team,TBD,Open
R-SEC-001,Security,"The `sessionId` is specified as a UUIDv4, but without rate limiting or throttling, the endpoint could be susceptible to denial-of-service (DoS) or log-spamming attacks by malicious clients.",3,3,9,Medium,"WI-ANA-011, WI-ANA-012","The initial SDS and task breakdown do not include requirements for rate limiting, focusing only on data structure validation.","Implement a rate-limiting middleware (e.g., `express-rate-limit`) on the analytics router (`WI-ANA-011`). The limit should be configured per-IP or per-session and set to a reasonable threshold based on expected client behavior.","If an attack is detected, the immediate response is to block the offending IP address(es) at the firewall or load balancer level. The rate limiter's threshold would then be adjusted to be more aggressive.",Monitoring shows an abnormally high request count from a single IP address. The service's CPU or memory usage spikes unexpectedly due to high traffic.,Security Lead,TBD,Open