risk_id,risk_category,risk_description,probability,impact,risk_score,priority_level,affected_tasks,root_cause,mitigation_strategy,contingency_plan,monitoring_trigger,owner,due_date,status
RISK-001,Technical,"Race condition in server-authoritative inventory updates, potentially leading to incorrect virtual currency balances.",4,5,20,High,"WI-4012, WI-4021","Failure to use atomic database operations (like $inc) for concurrent updates to a player's inventory items.","Mandate the use of MongoDB's `$inc` operator for all quantity modifications in the PlayerInventoryRepository. Implement specific integration tests that simulate concurrent requests to update a single user's inventory to verify atomicity. Conduct peer reviews focused on currency-handling logic.",Have a pre-written script to audit inventory records against a transaction log (e.g., from an IAP service) to identify and correct discrepancies. Establish a support protocol to manually credit affected players.
,Alerts for negative quantities in the inventory collection. A higher-than-average rate of support tickets related to missing currency.,Tech Lead,2024-09-15,Open
RISK-002,Security,"Insecure implementation of JWT authentication, potentially allowing unauthorized data access or impersonation.",3,5,15,High,WI-1031,"Weak JWT secret, failure to handle token expiration, or including excessive sensitive data in the JWT payload.","Use a long, high-entropy secret loaded from a secure environment variable or secrets manager. Ensure the `auth.middleware.ts` strictly validates the token's signature and expiration. Do not include any PII other than the non-guessable player ID in the payload. Implement token revocation logic if needed.",If a secret is compromised, immediately rotate the secret, force all users to re-authenticate, and analyze logs for any unauthorized access that occurred during the breach period.,Log monitoring for a high rate of token validation failures. Security audit findings.,Tech Lead,2024-09-01,Open
RISK-003,Compliance,"Incomplete data deletion for GDPR/CCPA requests, where associated data is orphaned instead of deleted/anonymized.",4,4,16,High,WI-5021,"The `requestDataDeletion` logic only soft-deletes the main `PlayerProfile` document but fails to cascade the deletion or anonymization to related collections like `LevelProgress`, `PlayerInventory`, and `AuditLog`.","The `DataPrivacyService.requestDataDeletion` method must be designed to not only set `isDeleted=true` on the profile but also to either hard-delete or anonymize (by nullifying the `userId`) all documents in other collections that reference the player. This entire process should be wrapped in a database transaction if possible.","Develop an admin script that can be run manually by authorized personnel to find and clean up any orphaned data associated with a soft-deleted `userId`. The script should be idempotent and thoroughly tested.","Periodic audit queries to find documents in `LevelProgress` or `PlayerInventory` whose `userId` points to a `PlayerProfile` marked as `isDeleted=true`.,Data Privacy Officer,2024-10-01,Open
RISK-004,External,"Vulnerabilities discovered in third-party NPM dependencies could expose the API to security threats.",3,5,15,High,WI-1011,"The project relies on a large number of open-source packages, any of which could have an undiscovered or newly reported security flaw (e.g., remote code execution, denial of service).","Integrate automated vulnerability scanning into the CI pipeline (e.g., `npm audit`, Snyk, GitHub Dependabot). Establish a policy for regularly reviewing and updating dependencies to their latest secure versions.","In case of a critical vulnerability announcement, have a 'fast-patch' process defined to quickly test and deploy the updated package, even outside the normal release cycle. Be prepared to temporarily disable features if a patch is not immediately available.,Alerts from the CI pipeline's vulnerability scanner (e.g., Dependabot alert). Public disclosure of a vulnerability in a used package.,Security Lead,2024-08-30,Open
RISK-005,Operational,"Application fails to start in a deployed environment due to missing or incorrect environment variables.",4,4,16,High,WI-1021,"The configuration loader is designed to fail fast, but a misconfiguration in the deployment environment (e.g., Kubernetes secret, .env file) can prevent the service from becoming operational.","The `config` module must perform robust validation on startup, logging exactly which required variables are missing or invalid. The `.env.example` file must be kept up-to-date. The CI/CD pipeline should include a step to check for the existence (not the value) of all required secrets in the target environment before deployment.",The deployment process should have an easy, well-documented rollback procedure to revert to the last known good configuration and application version.","Application fails health checks immediately after deployment. Crash loop back-off status in the container orchestrator. Logs showing 'Missing required environment variable...' on startup.,DevOps Lead,2024-09-01,Open
RISK-006,Quality,"Inadequate testing coverage for critical business logic (e.g., services, data privacy) and API endpoints, leading to bugs in production.",3,4,12,Medium,"WI-6012, WI-6013","The high complexity of testing tasks and tight project timelines can lead to developers cutting corners, resulting in low test coverage for complex logic paths, edge cases, and error conditions.","Enforce code coverage thresholds in the CI pipeline (e.g., using Jest's coverage reporter) and fail the build if thresholds are not met for critical modules. Mandate that all new features and bug fixes include corresponding unit and integration tests in the same pull request.",Allocate specific 'bug-bash' or focused testing sprints post-feature-completion to find and fix issues that were missed. Increase logging around complex features to better diagnose issues found in production.,CI pipeline build fails due to coverage checks falling below the required percentage. A post-deployment increase in bug reports or 500 errors for a specific feature.,QA Lead,2024-10-15,Open
RISK-007,Timeline,"Underestimation of high-complexity tasks leads to schedule delays and potential compromises in quality.",4,3,12,Medium,"WI-3012, WI-4012, WI-5021, WI-6012, WI-7013","The inherent difficulty and potential for unknown challenges in tasks marked as 'High' complexity (atomic operations, multi-repository orchestration, full test suites, CI pipelines) are not fully accounted for in initial estimates.","Break down 'High' complexity tasks into smaller, more manageable sub-tasks during sprint planning. Add a contingency buffer (e.g., 20-30%) to the estimates for these specific tasks. Encourage early prototyping or spikes for the most complex areas to uncover challenges sooner.",De-scope non-critical features or move them to a subsequent release if the core high-priority features are falling significantly behind schedule. Re-allocate resources if a specific complex task is becoming a bottleneck.,Work items consistently exceeding their estimated effort during sprint reviews. Key dependencies for other epics are not completed on time.,Project Manager,2024-09-01,Open
RISK-008,Performance,"The progress synchronization endpoint (`POST /progress/sync`) performs poorly under high load or with large data payloads.",3,4,12,Medium,"WI-3021, WI-3012","The service logic iterates through a list of progress records and performs an individual `upsert` operation for each one. This can lead to a high number of sequential database calls, causing long response times for players with extensive progress history.","Refactor the `LevelProgressRepository.upsertProgress` to use MongoDB's bulk write operations (`bulkWrite`). This allows sending the entire batch of updates (inserts and updates) to the database in a single network round trip.","If bulk operations are still too slow, implement a background job queue. The API would quickly accept the data, place it in a queue (e.g., RabbitMQ, Redis), and a separate worker process would handle the database updates asynchronously. The client would receive an 'Accepted' response immediately.,API monitoring shows p95 latency for `POST /api/v1/progress/sync` exceeding a predefined threshold (e.g., >1s). Database monitoring shows high CPU usage or lock contention during peak hours.,Tech Lead,2024-09-30,Open
RISK-009,Security,"Sensitive information, like file paths or stack traces, is leaked to the client through error responses.",3,4,12,Medium,WI-1032,"The global `errorHandler` middleware is not configured correctly to differentiate between development and production environments, resulting in detailed internal error information being sent in production responses.","The `errorHandler` must explicitly check `process.env.NODE_ENV`. If it is 'production', it should log the full error internally but only send a generic, non-descriptive error message to the client (e.g., ""Internal Server Error""). Custom `ApiError` messages should be reviewed to ensure they don't contain sensitive data.","If a leak is detected, immediately deploy a hotfix to the `errorHandler`. Use an API gateway or load balancer rule to temporarily filter/rewrite response bodies to strip out sensitive patterns while the hotfix is being prepared.",Penetration test findings. Manual API inspection in a production-like environment reveals stack traces in 500-level error responses. Customer reports of strange error messages.,Security Lead,2024-09-01,Open
RISK-010,Operational,"Complex CI/CD pipeline fails, blocking developers from deploying new code or hotfixes.",3,4,12,Medium,WI-7013,"The pipeline has multiple stages (lint, build, test, deploy) and dependencies, increasing the points of failure. Errors in the pipeline configuration (e.g., YAML syntax, script paths) or transient issues with the runner environment can halt all deployments.","Develop the pipeline incrementally and ensure each stage is robust. Maintain thorough documentation for the pipeline's operation and troubleshooting steps. Ensure the pipeline can be run locally (e.g., using a tool like `act` for GitHub Actions) to debug issues without pushing to the repository.",Define and document a manual, emergency deployment process that can be executed by a senior engineer or DevOps lead to bypass a broken pipeline. This process must still include essential quality gates like running tests manually.,The CI pipeline consistently fails for reasons other than code quality (e.g., runner timeouts, script errors). Developers are unable to merge and deploy time-sensitive fixes.,DevOps Lead,2024-10-15,Open
RISK-011,Technical,"Incorrect Mongoose schema index definitions lead to poor query performance or data duplication.",3,3,9,Medium,"WI-2011, WI-3011, WI-4011","An index is missed, a compound index has keys in the wrong order, or a `unique` constraint is forgotten, leading to slow database lookups under load or duplicate records where they should be disallowed.","During code reviews, specifically validate that Mongoose schema definitions match the indexes specified in the SDS. Use MongoDB's `explain()` command on common queries during testing to ensure they are using the intended indexes efficiently.","Write and run a one-time data migration script to add the missing index to the collection in the production database. Write a script to find and merge/delete any duplicate data that was created due to a missing unique index.,Database performance monitoring shows a high number of scanned documents vs. returned documents for common queries. Duplicate data is found in a collection that should be unique (e.g., two inventory items for the same player/itemId).,Tech Lead,2024-09-15,Open
RISK-012,Security,"Insecure Docker container configuration exposes the application to runtime vulnerabilities.",3,4,12,Medium,WI-7011,"The Dockerfile is not written following security best practices, such as running the container as a non-root user, using a minimal base image, or properly handling multi-stage builds to exclude build tools from the final image.","Enforce a multi-stage `Dockerfile` pattern. The final stage should be based on a minimal image (e.g., `node:18-alpine`), copy only the necessary `dist` folder and `node_modules`, and use the `USER` instruction to run the application as a non-privileged user. Use a tool like Hadolint to lint the Dockerfile.",If a vulnerability is found, immediately rebuild and redeploy the image with the corrected `Dockerfile`. Use a container scanning tool in the registry (e.g., ECR Scan, GCR Scan) to find existing vulnerabilities in deployed images.,Security scanner (e.g., Hadolint in CI, registry scanner) reports violations. A security audit finds the container is running as the root user.,DevOps Lead,2024-10-10,Open
"
