risk_id,risk_category,risk_description,probability,impact,risk_score,priority_level,affected_tasks,root_cause,mitigation_strategy,contingency_plan,monitoring_trigger,owner,due_date,status
RISK-SEC-001,Technical,"JWT secrets and other sensitive configurations are mishandled, leading to leaks via source code or insecure environment variables, allowing for full system compromise.",4,5,20,High,"WI-003, WI-006, WI-012, WI-019",Reliance on local .env files and lack of a dedicated secret management system.,"Use a dedicated secrets management tool (e.g., AWS Secrets Manager, HashiCorp Vault). Use .env for local development only and ensure it is in .gitignore. Implement pre-commit hooks (e.g., git-secrets) to scan for secrets before commits.","If a secret is compromised, initiate an emergency rotation protocol: revoke the old secret, issue a new one, invalidate all active sessions/tokens, and force re-authentication for all users.",A secret is detected in a git commit by a scanner. An audit flags secrets stored as insecure environment variables.,DevOps Engineer,TBD,Open
RISK-SEC-002,Technical,"Incorrect implementation of JWT logic (e.g., using 'alg: none', weak secrets, including PII in payload) allows for token forgery or unauthorized access.",3,5,15,High,"WI-006, WI-013",Complexity of token-based authentication security nuances and developer inexperience.,"Mandate peer review of all security-sensitive code (TokenService, protect middleware) by a senior developer. Use established libraries correctly and follow security best practices. Do not include PII in JWT payloads, only non-sensitive identifiers.","If a flaw is found, deploy an emergency patch immediately. Revoke all potentially affected tokens by rotating the signing key. Analyze logs for signs of exploitation.",Security audit or penetration test reveals a flaw. Unusual activity detected for a user account that cannot be explained.,Tech Lead,TBD,Open
RISK-QUAL-001,Quality,"Unit tests for AuthenticationService have incomplete coverage or poorly mocked dependencies, failing to catch critical bugs in registration, login, or token refresh logic.",4,4,16,High,"WI-016, WI-017",High complexity of the service and its interactions; pressure to meet deadlines leads to cutting corners on tests.,"Enforce a strict code coverage threshold (>90%) for the service. Mandate testing of all error paths and edge cases (e.g., user not found, password mismatch). Conduct test case reviews alongside code reviews.","If a bug is found in production, write a failing regression test that reproduces the bug first, then fix the code to make the test pass. Perform a full manual QA cycle on the auth flow.",Code coverage drops below the enforced threshold on a pull request. A bug is found in staging/production that was not caught by unit tests.,QA Lead,TBD,Open
RISK-OPS-001,Operational,"The login and registration endpoints lack rate limiting, making them vulnerable to credential stuffing, brute-force password attacks, and resource exhaustion DoS.",4,4,16,High,"WI-010, WI-011, WI-012","The requirement for rate limiting is not explicitly stated in the work items, making it a common oversight.","Implement IP-based and/or user-based rate limiting on sensitive endpoints (`/login`, `/register`, `/refresh`) using middleware like `express-rate-limit`. Log all rate-limited requests for monitoring.","If an attack is detected, implement more aggressive rate limits or temporarily block offending IP ranges at the infrastructure level (WAF/Firewall). Notify affected users if a breach is suspected.",Monitoring shows a sudden, high volume of requests to login/register endpoints from a single IP. A spike in `LOGIN_FAILURE` audit events.,Tech Lead,TBD,Open
RISK-EXT-001,External,"The external PlayerRepository or AuditLoggingService is unavailable or has breaking API changes, blocking development and testing of the AuthenticationService.",3,4,12,Medium,"WI-008, WI-016, WI-017","Tight coupling in development timelines between different microservices without a firm, shared contract.","Establish and agree upon firm API contracts (e.g., using OpenAPI/Swagger) early. Develop against a stable mock server that implements this contract. Implement resilient patterns like retries in the repository implementation.","If the real service is unavailable, continue development and testing against the mock server. Escalate dependency issue to the project manager to re-prioritize work on the blocking service.",CI/CD integration tests begin failing due to network or 5xx errors from the dependent service. Communication from the other team about delays.,Project Manager,TBD,Open
RISK-TIME-001,Timeline,"The 'High' complexity effort for writing comprehensive unit and integration tests (WI-016, WI-017) is underestimated, leading to project delays or reduced quality.",4,3,12,Medium,"WI-016, WI-017",Over-optimism and failure to account for the complexity of setting up mocks and testing all permutations of the auth logic.,"Allocate a specific, generous time budget for testing tasks. Have the developer responsible for the tests review and sign off on the estimate. Begin writing tests in parallel with feature development.","If timeline pressure becomes extreme, de-scope non-critical features. Prioritize tests based on risk: focus on happy paths for login/register and all security failure paths first.",Velocity metrics show testing tasks are taking significantly longer than estimated. Developers report difficulty in writing tests for the service.,Project Manager,TBD,Open
RISK-OPS-002,Operational,"The final production Docker image contains vulnerabilities, development dependencies, or runs as root, increasing the attack surface of the deployed application.",3,4,12,Medium,WI-019,"Inexperience with Docker security best practices; improper configuration of the multi-stage Dockerfile.","Use a minimal base image (e.g., `node:18-alpine`). Implement a non-root user to run the application. Integrate a container vulnerability scanner (e.g., Trivy, Snyk) into the CI/CD pipeline to fail builds with high/critical vulnerabilities.","If a vulnerability is discovered in the production image, prioritize patching the base image or application dependency. Re-build and re-deploy the patched image immediately.",Container scanner in CI/CD pipeline detects a high/critical vulnerability. A new CVE is announced for the base image or a core dependency.,DevOps Engineer,TBD,Open
RISK-SEC-003,Operational,"The global error handler in production returns detailed error messages or stack traces, leaking internal application structure to potential attackers.",3,3,9,Medium,WI-012,Failure to differentiate error handling logic between development and production environments (`NODE_ENV`).,"The global error handler must check `NODE_ENV`. In 'production', it should log the full error internally but only return a generic, non-descriptive error message to the client (e.g., ""{ 'message': 'An internal server error occurred' }"").","If sensitive information is found to be leaking, deploy a hotfix to the error handler immediately. Analyze web server logs to determine if the leaked information has been accessed.",A security scan of the production API reveals detailed error messages. A user reports seeing a stack trace.,Tech Lead,TBD,Open
RISK-QUAL-002,Quality,"Without automated enforcement, developers do not adhere to the established code style (ESLint, Prettier), leading to inconsistent, hard-to-read, and difficult-to-maintain code.",4,2,8,Medium,"WI-018, all source code tasks",Lack of automated enforcement of coding standards in the development workflow.,"Implement a pre-commit hook (using Husky) that runs ESLint and Prettier. Configure the CI pipeline to fail the build if the `lint` script fails. This makes adherence non-negotiable.","Periodically schedule time for a 'lint-a-thon' to fix all outstanding linting issues across the codebase. Reinforce the importance of the standards in code reviews.",The CI build fails on the linting step. A code review identifies multiple style violations that were not caught automatically.,Tech Lead,TBD,Open
RISK-TECH-001,Technical,"The bcrypt salt rounds (cost factor) is set too high, causing high CPU usage and slow response times for registration and login, creating a performance bottleneck.",2,3,6,Low,"WI-007, WI-008","Misunderstanding of the performance trade-offs of the bcrypt cost factor, leading to over-securing at the cost of performance.","Choose a reasonable default cost factor (e.g., 12) based on current hardware standards. Make the cost factor easily configurable via an environment variable. Perform load testing on the `/register` and `/login` endpoints.","If response times are unacceptably high, lower the cost factor and deploy the change. This will not require re-hashing existing passwords, as only new/updated passwords will use the new factor.",API latency monitoring shows high P95/P99 response times for `/login` or `/register`. CPU usage on auth service instances spikes during high login traffic.,Tech Lead,TBD,Open