risk_id,risk_category,risk_description,probability,impact,risk_score,priority_level,affected_tasks,root_cause,mitigation_strategy,contingency_plan,monitoring_trigger,owner,due_date,status
IAP-RISK-001,Technical,"Third-party platform validation APIs (Apple/Google) change their response format, authentication, or endpoints, breaking the validation gateways.","3","5","15","High","WI-IAP-021, WI-IAP-022, WI-IAP-030","External dependency on platform providers who can change their APIs at any time.","Preventive: Design gateways with robust error handling to gracefully manage unexpected responses. Implement thorough logging of raw platform responses. Detective: Set up synthetic monitoring that periodically sends a known valid (sandbox) receipt to the endpoint to check for success.","Corrective: An on-call engineer will analyze the new API format from logs and platform documentation. A hotfix will be developed and deployed to update the relevant gateway (Apple or Google) to parse the new response.","A sudden spike in validation failures with a specific error message (e.g., 'Cannot parse response') in the audit logs. Alerts from synthetic monitoring failing.",Tech Lead,N/A,Open
IAP-RISK-002,Security,"The unique compound index on `{platform: 1, platformTransactionId: 1}` is missed or implemented incorrectly in the Mongoose schema, failing the primary defense against IAP replay attacks.","3","5","15","High","WI-IAP-010, WI-IAP-030, WI-IAP-051","Developer oversight; insufficient understanding of the critical security role of the database index.","Preventive: Mandate peer review for all data model changes, with a specific checklist item for verifying security-critical indexes. Corrective: Write a dedicated integration test that asserts a database-level unique constraint violation occurs when submitting the same transaction twice.","Corrective: If detected post-deployment, immediately deploy a hotfix to add the index to the schema and database. Run a script to find, log, and invalidate all duplicate transactions. Manually audit and adjust affected player inventories.","The application-level replay attack check in `IapValidationService` logs a ""replay attack detected"" event, but a database query reveals duplicate `platformTransactionId`s exist, indicating the index failed. A periodic automated check for duplicates can also be a trigger.",DBA / Tech Lead,N/A,Open
IAP-RISK-003,Technical,"The item granting logic in `PlayerInventoryRepository` is not implemented atomically, creating a race condition that could grant items multiple times for one purchase if the endpoint is called concurrently.","3","5","15","High","WI-IAP-012, WI-IAP-030","Incorrect use of Mongoose/MongoDB update operators; failure to use atomic operations like `$inc`.","Preventive: Code review must confirm the use of `findOneAndUpdate` with the `$inc` operator. Corrective: Develop an integration test that simulates concurrent requests for the same user and validates that the inventory is incremented only once.","Corrective: Deploy a hotfix with the correct atomic operator. Run a data-fix script to analyze transaction and inventory logs, identify users with excess items, and correct their inventory balances.","Discrepancies found between the number of 'validated' transactions for a user and their inventory balance during a routine audit. Customer reports receiving more items than paid for.",Dev Team,N/A,Open
IAP-RISK-004,Technical,"The orchestration logic in `IapValidationService` has a flaw, such as not setting the transaction status to 'failed' if item granting fails, leaving the transaction in a 'pending' state indefinitely and causing data inconsistency.","4","4","16","High","WI-IAP-030, WI-IAP-051","Incomplete error handling in the `try...catch` block that surrounds the fulfillment process. The complexity of the orchestration leads to a missed state transition.","Preventive: Implement robust `try...catch...finally` logic to ensure transaction status is always updated. Corrective: Write specific integration tests that mock a failure in the `PlayerInventoryRepository` and assert that the `IapTransaction` document is updated to 'failed'.","Corrective: Develop a script to find and re-process all transactions stuck in a 'pending' state for more than a few minutes. If reprocessing fails, mark them as 'failed' and alert support to investigate.","Monitoring alert for a high number of transactions remaining in the 'pending' state for over 5 minutes. Customer support tickets reporting purchases that were paid for but items were not received.",Dev Team,N/A,Open
IAP-RISK-005,Security,"Environment secrets (JWT secret, platform shared secrets, DB credentials) are accidentally committed to source control.","2","5","10","Medium","WI-IAP-003","Developer error; `.gitignore` is not configured correctly or is accidentally modified. Use of hardcoded secrets during local testing.","Preventive: Implement pre-commit hooks that scan for secret patterns. Use a `.gitignore` template that explicitly ignores `.env` files. Regularly rotate secrets. Corrective: Integrate a secret scanning tool (e.g., GitGuardian, GitHub secret scanning) into the CI pipeline.","Corrective: If a secret is leaked, immediately revoke the compromised credential (rotate the JWT secret, generate a new Apple shared secret, change DB password). Force a git history rewrite to remove the secret, though it should be considered permanently compromised.","Alert from an automated secret scanner in the CI/CD pipeline or a manual discovery during a code review.",Security Team,N/A,Open
IAP-RISK-006,External,"The `google-play-billing` or `apple-receipt-verify` libraries have a critical bug or are abandoned, preventing successful validation.","2","5","10","Medium","WI-IAP-001, WI-IAP-021, WI-IAP-022","Dependency on third-party open-source libraries.","Preventive: Choose well-maintained and popular libraries. Pin dependency versions in `package.json` and use a lockfile (`package-lock.json`) to prevent unexpected updates. Use a tool like Snyk or Dependabot to scan for known vulnerabilities.","Corrective: If a critical bug is found, the team must either fork the library and patch it, find an alternative library, or implement the validation logic using direct HTTP calls to the platform APIs. This would be a significant, unplanned effort.","CI build fails due to a breaking change in a library update. A stream of validation failures is traced back to the library's behavior. Snyk/Dependabot alert on a critical vulnerability.",Tech Lead,N/A,Open
IAP-RISK-007,Quality,"Unit and integration test coverage is low, particularly for complex error handling paths and edge cases, leading to bugs being discovered in production.","3","3","9","Medium","WI-IAP-050, WI-IAP-051","Timeline pressure leading to skimping on tests; developer inexperience with testing complex, multi-stage flows.","Preventive: Enforce a minimum code coverage threshold in the CI pipeline (e.g., 85% branch coverage). Mandate that all pull requests include tests for the new logic, especially for failure cases.","Corrective: Dedicate a sprint to ""paying down tech debt"" by increasing test coverage for critical components like the `IapValidationService` and gateways. Prioritize writing tests for any bugs discovered in production.","The code coverage report from the CI pipeline shows a downward trend or is below the target. A production bug is reported that could have been caught by a unit/integration test.",QA Lead,N/A,Open
IAP-RISK-008,Security,"The Joi validation schema for the request body is too permissive or has a flaw in its conditional logic, allowing malformed data to reach the service layer.","3","3","9","Medium","WI-IAP-041, WI-IAP-042","Incomplete schema definition that doesn't account for all possible invalid inputs. The conditional `Joi.when()` logic is complex and easy to get wrong.","Preventive: During code review, test the schema against a suite of known-good and known-bad request bodies. Add specific unit tests for the validator schema itself.","Corrective: If a malformed request causes an error, update the Joi schema immediately to be more restrictive and prevent the class of error. Deploy a hotfix.","The service throws an unexpected `TypeError` or other runtime error because it received data of a different shape than it expected, indicating the validation layer failed. Logs show unhandled exceptions in the service layer.",Dev Team,N/A,Open
IAP-RISK-009,Resource,"The team lacks deep experience with the specific platform validation libraries (`apple-receipt-verify`, `google-play-billing`), leading to implementation errors or schedule delays.","3","3","9","Medium","WI-IAP-021, WI-IAP-022","Skills gap; the libraries and platform APIs are niche and have unique complexities (e.g., Google auth, Apple receipt structure).","Preventive: Allocate time for developers to spike/prototype the integration with each platform's sandbox environment before committing to the full implementation. Encourage pair programming on these specific tasks.","Corrective: If development stalls, bring in a short-term consultant with expertise in mobile IAP validation or allocate additional time for the team to research and overcome the learning curve.","The estimated effort for gateway implementation tasks (WI-IAP-021, WI-IAP-022) is repeatedly exceeded. Developers report significant difficulty in getting successful responses from platform sandbox environments.",Project Manager,N/A,Open
IAP-RISK-010,Operational,"The Docker image is not optimized, containing build tools, dev dependencies, or source code, leading to a larger attack surface and slower deployment times.","4","2","8","Medium","WI-IAP-052","Poorly constructed `Dockerfile` that does not use multi-stage builds.","Preventive: Enforce the use of multi-stage `Dockerfile` builds as a standard. The first stage builds the app, and the final stage copies only the necessary production artifacts (`dist`, `node_modules`) into a minimal base image (e.g., `node-alpine`).","Corrective: Refactor the `Dockerfile` to use a multi-stage build. Rebuild and redeploy the application using the optimized image.","A security scan of the container image flags the presence of development tools or vulnerable packages that are not needed at runtime. The image size is excessively large (e.g., > 1GB).",DevOps / Tech Lead,N/A,Open
IAP-RISK-011,Security,"Authentication middleware is misconfigured or not applied to the IAP route, allowing unauthenticated access to the validation endpoint.","2","4","8","Medium","WI-IAP-043","Configuration error in the Express router setup; middleware is applied in the wrong order or not at all.","Preventive: Implement an integration test (using a library like `supertest`) that specifically attempts to call the `/iap/validate` endpoint without an auth token and asserts that it receives a 401 Unauthorized error.","Corrective: Immediately deploy a hotfix to correct the router configuration and apply the `authMiddleware`. Review all other protected endpoints to ensure they are not similarly misconfigured.","An audit log for a successful IAP validation is missing a `userId`. A security audit or penetration test discovers the unprotected endpoint.",Security Team,N/A,Open
IAP-RISK-012,Technical,"The MongoDB connection logic is not robust and does not handle transient network issues or database failovers, causing the service to crash instead of recovering.","3","2","6","Low","WI-IAP-004","The Mongoose connection logic lacks event listeners for `error` and `disconnected` events, and does not implement a retry mechanism.","Preventive: Implement an exponential backoff retry strategy for the initial database connection. Add event listeners to the Mongoose connection object to log disconnection events and attempt to reconnect.","Corrective: If the service is crashing due to DB connection issues, update the connection logic to be more resilient and redeploy. Ensure the service is run by a process manager (like PM2 or a container orchestrator) that will automatically restart it on a crash.","The service logs show repeated crashes on startup when the database is temporarily unavailable. The service goes down and stays down after a brief network partition with the database.",Dev Team,N/A,Open