risk_id,risk_category,risk_description,probability,impact,risk_score,priority_level,affected_tasks,root_cause,mitigation_strategy,contingency_plan,monitoring_trigger,owner,due_date,status
R001,Technical,"Third-party npm packages have undiscovered vulnerabilities or breaking changes in minor/patch versions, leading to system instability or security exploits.",3,4,12,Medium,"WI-101, WI-605","Reliance on external open-source software with its own development lifecycle and potential for bugs or vulnerabilities.","Use a lockfile (`package-lock.json`) to pin dependency versions. Integrate automated dependency scanning (e.g., `npm audit`, Snyk, Dependabot) into the CI pipeline. Regularly review and update dependencies in a controlled manner.","If a critical vulnerability is found, immediately create a task to patch the dependency. If no patch is available, assess the exploitability and implement temporary workarounds (e.g., at the firewall/WAF level) until a fix is released.",Automated security scanner (e.g., Dependabot) alert. CI pipeline failure on `npm audit`.,Tech Lead,TBD,Identified
R002,Security,"Sensitive credentials (JWT_SECRET, Platform Client IDs) are accidentally committed to version control, exposing them publicly.",2,5,10,Medium,"WI-103","Human error combined with improper `.gitignore` configuration or lack of pre-commit hooks.","Ensure `.env` is listed in the `.gitignore` file from the project's inception. Implement a pre-commit hook that scans for common secret patterns. Use a CI check to fail the build if secrets are detected in committed code.","If secrets are committed, immediately rotate all exposed credentials (JWT secrets, API keys). Purge the sensitive data from the git history using tools like BFG Repo-Cleaner. Audit logs for any signs of misuse.",A failed pre-commit hook or a failed CI secret-scanning job. Manual code review spots a credential.,Dev Team,TBD,Identified
R003,Technical,"Incorrectly configured Mongoose indexes (e.g., missing TTL on refresh tokens, non-sparse unique index on email) lead to poor database performance under load or data integrity issues.",3,4,12,Medium,"WI-201, WI-202","Lack of specific knowledge about MongoDB indexing strategies and their performance implications. Oversight during the modeling phase.","Mandate peer review for all data model changes. Use database profiling tools in a staging environment to analyze query performance. Document the rationale for each index in the model definition file.","If performance degradation is detected, analyze slow queries to identify the missing or incorrect index. Apply the new index during a low-traffic maintenance window. For TTL, manually run a script to clean up expired documents until the index is in place.",Application Performance Monitoring (APM) tool shows high latency on specific database queries. Database CPU usage spikes. Users report slow response times.,Tech Lead,TBD,Identified
R004,Operational,"The application does not handle database connection drops and reconnections gracefully, leading to service downtime when the database has a transient issue.",3,4,12,Medium,"WI-105, WI-205","Failure to implement robust event listeners for Mongoose connection events (e.g., `disconnected`, `error`) and a proper retry logic.","Implement exponential backoff retry logic for the initial database connection. Add event listeners for disconnection events to log the issue and attempt reconnection. Configure health checks to fail if the DB connection is lost, allowing orchestrators to restart the service.",If the service enters a crash loop, temporarily increase the memory/cpu resources to handle restart load. Manually restart service instances. Investigate the root cause of the database instability in parallel.,Service health check endpoint fails. Log monitoring system shows a flood of database connection error messages. High rate of 5xx errors from the API.,Dev Team,TBD,Identified
R005,Security,"An insufficient number of bcrypt salt rounds is configured, making password hashes more susceptible to offline brute-force attacks if the database is compromised.",2,5,10,Medium,"WI-103, WI-301","Choosing a low default value for BCRYPT_SALT_ROUNDS for performance reasons, or not keeping up with industry best practices as compute power increases.","Set the default salt rounds to a current industry-recommended value (e.g., 12 or higher). Make the value configurable via environment variables. Document the security implications of lowering this value.","If the database is compromised, assume all passwords are lost. Force a password reset for all users immediately. Increase the salt rounds for all new and updated passwords.",Security audit or code review flags a low salt round value. OWASP guidelines are updated with new recommendations.,Tech Lead,TBD,Identified
R006,Security,"The refresh token rotation logic is implemented incorrectly, allowing a compromised refresh token to be reused or not being invalidated after use, leading to long-term account compromise.",3,5,15,High,"WI-302, WI-303, WI-602","Complexity in orchestrating multiple stateful operations: JWT verification, database lookup, database deletion, and generation of new tokens. A failure in any step could leave the system in an insecure state.","Implement the token verification and rotation logic within a database transaction if possible. Write extensive unit and integration tests covering all success and failure paths, including race conditions. Conduct a specific peer review session focused solely on this logic.","If a flaw is discovered, implement an emergency endpoint to forcefully log out all users by clearing the entire refresh token collection in the database. Force all users to re-authenticate.",Security audit finding. Anomaly detection system flags multiple successful refresh requests using the same token ID from different IPs/locations.,Tech Lead,TBD,Identified
R007,Security,"Logic for linking a new platform login (e.g., Google) to an existing email account is flawed, potentially allowing account takeover if an attacker can create a platform account with a victim's email address.",3,5,15,High,"WI-303, WI-602","Complex edge case in user lifecycle management. Failure to verify ownership of the email address before linking the new platform identity to the existing account.","When a platform login provides an email that already exists, do not link automatically. Instead, require the user to log in with their existing method (password) to confirm the link. Alternatively, send a verification email to the address on file before linking the new platform ID.","If a vulnerability is discovered, deploy a hotfix immediately. Write a script to identify and manually review accounts where multiple platform identities are linked to a single email to find potential takeovers. Contact affected users.",Security audit finding. User reports that their account is now associated with a social login they did not authorize.,Tech Lead,TBD,Identified
R008,Security,"Insufficient or overly permissive DTO validation allows for unexpected data to enter the application services, leading to unhandled exceptions or potential NoSQL injection vectors.",3,3,9,Medium,"WI-403, WI-603","Forgetting to apply validation decorators or using overly generic ones. Not using features like `forbidNonWhitelisted` in `class-validator` to reject unexpected fields.","Enforce a strict policy for DTO validation: all incoming data must be validated. Use `class-transformer` and `class-validator` middleware globally. Enable options to strip or forbid non-whitelisted properties. Cover DTO validation explicitly in integration tests.","If an issue is found, deploy a hotfix with stricter validation rules. Analyze logs to determine if the vulnerability was exploited and assess the impact on data integrity.",Code review finds a DTO without proper validation. Penetration test bypasses expected validation. Unexpected errors appear in logs from the service layer due to malformed data.,Dev Team,TBD,Identified
R009,External,"A third-party platform (Google/Apple) makes a breaking change to their token validation API, SDK, or token format, causing a specific login method to fail completely.",2,5,10,Medium,"WI-504, WI-303","Dependency on an external service that is outside of the project's control. Lack of advance notice from the third-party vendor.","Wrap external SDK calls in a dedicated service (Adapter pattern) to isolate the impact of changes. Subscribe to developer newsletters/blogs for Google and Apple. Implement robust monitoring and alerting for platform login failures.","If a platform login breaks, immediately disable the failing login method in the UI via a feature flag to prevent user frustration. Post a notice on a status page. Prioritize the development of a fix based on the new API documentation.",A sudden spike in authentication failures for a specific platform (e.g., Google) is detected by monitoring tools. Users report that a login button is not working.,Tech Lead,TBD,Identified
R010,Security,"The service fails to correctly validate the 'audience' (AUD) claim in platform ID tokens, allowing a token intended for another application to be used for authentication.",4,5,20,High,"WI-504","This is a common and easily-missed step in OAuth/OIDC token validation. The developer may only check the signature and expiry, but not who the token was issued for.","Explicitly pass the expected client/audience ID (from config) to the validation function of the `google-auth-library` and `node-apple-signin-auth` libraries. Add a unit test that specifically asserts that a token with a valid signature but an invalid audience is rejected.","If discovered, deploy a hotfix immediately. Audit all previous platform-based logins to check if the audience claim was logged. If not, consider forcing a re-authentication for all platform users out of an abundance of caution.",A security code review or penetration test specifically identifies the missing audience validation. This is a primary finding in many security audits.,Tech Lead,TBD,Identified
R011,Security,"Sensitive information (e.g., full stack traces, database error messages) is leaked in production API responses, providing attackers with valuable system insights.",3,3,9,Medium,"WI-104, WI-503","Improper configuration of the global error handler, which fails to differentiate between development and production environments.","The global error handler must check `NODE_ENV`. If `NODE_ENV` is 'production', it must return a generic, sanitized error message. If it is 'development', it can return the full error details for debugging.","Deploy a hotfix to the error handling middleware. If information was leaked, review logs to see what was exposed and assess if any of the exposed details could lead to further exploitation.",A penetration test report flags information disclosure. A bug report from a user includes a screenshot with a stack trace in the response.,Dev Team,TBD,Identified
R012,Quality,"Inadequate test database cleanup strategy leads to flaky tests, where tests fail intermittently due to state left over from previous test runs.",4,3,12,Medium,"WI-603","State is not properly isolated between tests. Asynchronous operations may not complete before the next test begins.","Implement a setup/teardown strategy for integration tests. Before each test (or test suite), clear all relevant collections in the test database. Ensure each test creates its own required data to be self-contained.","If tests are flaky, temporarily disable them in the CI pipeline to prevent blocking deployments. Create a high-priority tech debt task to fix the test suite. Run the failing tests in isolation to identify the state management issue.",CI/CD pipeline fails intermittently on the testing step with the same tests. Developers are unable to reproduce failures locally without running the entire suite.,Dev Team,TBD,Identified
R013,Security,"The production Docker image is bloated with development dependencies, source code, or build tools, which increases the image size, deployment time, and security attack surface.",3,3,9,Medium,"WI-604","Failure to use a multi-stage Docker build. `npm install` is run without the `--production` flag, or the entire project directory is copied into the final image.","Implement a multi-stage `Dockerfile`. The first `build` stage installs all dependencies and compiles the TypeScript. The final `production` stage starts from a clean Node.js image, copies only the `dist` folder, `package.json`, and the production `node_modules`.","Update the Dockerfile to use a multi-stage build. Rebuild and deploy the new, smaller image. Configure a security scanner to check container images for vulnerabilities.",Container image vulnerability scan shows vulnerabilities in dev dependencies. Docker image size is excessively large (>500MB). Code review of Dockerfile identifies a single-stage build.,Dev Team,TBD,Identified
R014,Security,"The CI pipeline is not configured to perform automated security scanning (dependency checking, static analysis), allowing known vulnerabilities to be deployed to production.",4,4,16,High,"WI-605","Focusing only on testing and building in the CI pipeline, and omitting security checks as a separate, manual process.","Add a dedicated step in the CI pipeline (e.g., in the GitHub Actions workflow) that runs `npm audit --production` and fails the build if high or critical vulnerabilities are found. Consider integrating SAST (Static Application Security Testing) tools as well.","If a vulnerability is discovered post-deployment, immediately trigger an emergency patch process. Run the scanner on the main branch to identify all other potential issues. Create tech debt tasks to fix non-critical vulnerabilities.",A post-deployment vulnerability scan finds a known vulnerability. A new high-profile vulnerability is announced for a dependency being used in the project.,Tech Lead,TBD,Identified
R015,Resource,"A developer assigned to a high-complexity task (e.g., token rotation, platform validation) lacks the specific expertise required, leading to delays or an insecure implementation.",3,4,12,Medium,"WI-302, WI-504","Inaccurate assessment of task complexity or developer skill set. Key person with the required skills is unavailable.","Mandate pair programming for all critical security-related tasks. Require detailed design proposals for complex features to be reviewed before implementation begins. Allocate budget for specialized training if a skill gap is identified across the team.","If the implementation is failing, reassign the task to a more senior developer or bring in external help. Allocate more time for the task and accept the delay. Schedule a blameless post-mortem to improve future task assignment.",PRs for a critical task are repeatedly rejected for fundamental flaws. The developer reports being blocked for an extended period. Estimated effort is significantly exceeded with little progress.,Tech Lead,TBD,Identified
R016,Timeline,"The complexity of high-effort tasks is significantly underestimated, causing a cascade of delays in dependent tasks and jeopardizing the overall project timeline.",4,4,16,High,"WI-302, WI-303, WI-504, WI-602, WI-603","Over-optimism, failure to break down complex tasks into smaller sub-tasks for estimation, and not accounting for unknown-unknowns in new or complex areas.","Break down all 'High' complexity work items into smaller, more granular sub-tasks before sprint planning. Apply a confidence multiplier or buffer to estimates for tasks involving new technologies or critical security logic. Prioritize implementing the riskiest tasks first.","If a delay becomes apparent, re-evaluate the project's critical path. Descope non-essential features or move them to a later release. Communicate the revised timeline to stakeholders as early as possible.",Velocity tracking shows a consistent failure to complete planned high-complexity tasks within a sprint. Key milestones are missed.,Project Manager,TBD,Identified