risk_id,risk_category,risk_description,probability,impact,risk_score,priority_level,affected_tasks,root_cause,mitigation_strategy,contingency_plan,monitoring_trigger,owner,due_date,status
RISK-TECH-001,Technical,"The MongoDB query for calculating a single player's rank (`getPlayerRank`) could be highly inefficient at scale, causing slow API responses and high database load as the scores collection grows.",4,4,16,High,"WI-2023, WI-4014","Complex aggregation or multiple queries required to count players with better scores, which does not scale well with millions of documents.",Proactively design the query using MongoDB's aggregation framework. Perform load testing on a seeded database with millions of scores to validate performance. Index the query path correctly. Use MongoDB's `explain()` to analyze query performance before merging.",If the endpoint is slow in production, temporarily cache player ranks for a longer duration or disable the specific endpoint while an optimized query is developed. A background job could pre-calculate ranks.",P95 latency for the `GET /leaderboards/:id/rank/:playerId` endpoint exceeds 500ms. MongoDB slow query log shows entries related to this operation.,Tech Lead,2024-08-15,Open
RISK-TECH-002,Technical,"The cheat detection HMAC validation logic has a subtle flaw or uses a weak secret, allowing malicious users to bypass it and submit fraudulent scores, compromising leaderboard integrity.",2,5,10,Medium,"WI-3012, WI-3013, WI-3014","Incorrect implementation of cryptographic functions or poor management of the `CLIENT_SECRET`.",Implement HMAC validation using a well-established crypto library. Peer review of the implementation by a second developer. Store `CLIENT_SECRET` in a secure secret manager (e.g., AWS Secrets Manager, HashiCorp Vault), not in environment variables.",If a bypass is discovered, immediately rotate the `CLIENT_SECRET`. Implement a temporary, stricter server-side sanity check (e.g., score increase velocity) and manually review high scores until the flaw is patched. Purge all fraudulent scores.",An audit reveals scores with impossible values or patterns despite having a valid payload. A sudden, inexplicable spike in top scores across the player base.,Security Lead,2024-08-20,Open
RISK-TECH-003,Technical,"Cache invalidation logic is faulty, leading to stale leaderboard data being served to users after a new score is submitted. This could be caused by race conditions or failing to clear all relevant paginated keys.",3,3,9,Medium,"WI-3013, WI-4012, WI-5012","Complexity in managing multiple cache keys for pagination (`leaderboard:<id>:limit:X:offset:Y`). A 'delete by pattern' operation can be slow or unavailable depending on the Redis client/setup.","Instead of deleting many keys, use a versioning strategy. Store a version number for each leaderboard (e.g., in a separate Redis key `leaderboard:version:<id>`). When submitting a score, increment the version. The cache key for a leaderboard view will include the version (`leaderboard:view:<id>:v<version>:...`). This invalidates all old keys automatically.",If stale data is reported, implement an emergency manual cache flush for all leaderboards. Temporarily reduce the cache TTL to a very low value (e.g., 5 seconds) until the bug is fixed.",User reports seeing an old leaderboard after they or someone else submitted a new high score. E2E tests show that a `GET` request after a `POST` returns stale data.,Tech Lead,2024-09-01,Open
RISK-QUAL-001,Quality,"The integration test environment setup is flaky or slow, discouraging frequent use and leading to uncaught bugs in the interaction between the API, database, and cache.",3,4,12,Medium,"WI-6021, WI-6022, WI-7013","High complexity in managing lifecycles of Dockerized MongoDB and Redis instances within the Jest test runner, potentially leading to race conditions or state not being cleaned up properly.","Use established libraries like `testcontainers` to manage the lifecycle of Docker dependencies programmatically. Ensure tests run in parallel with isolated environments for each test file. Optimize the startup/shutdown scripts.",If tests are too flaky, temporarily disable the problematic integration tests from the main CI pipeline and run them in a separate, non-blocking pipeline. Dedicate a sprint to stabilizing the test environment.",The CI pipeline shows a high rate of intermittent test failures not related to code changes. Developers start skipping or ignoring integration tests locally.,QA Lead,2024-08-10,Open
RISK-RSRC-001,Resource,"A skills gap in advanced Mongoose/MongoDB query optimization or Redis usage leads to suboptimal implementations and delays in high-complexity tasks.",3,3,9,Medium,"WI-2023, WI-4012, WI-5012","The project relies on specialized knowledge of database and cache internals for performance-critical features like ranking and caching strategies.","Schedule knowledge-sharing sessions or pair programming on complex data access tasks. Provide access to training materials or a budget for expert consultation if needed. Encourage detailed code comments on complex queries.",If a feature is blocked by a skills gap, re-prioritize other, less-dependent tasks to keep development velocity up. Bring in a short-term consultant or allocate extra time for research and development.",A critical, high-complexity task (e.g., `WI-2023`) is significantly behind schedule. The implemented solution for a complex problem is naive and fails performance reviews.,Project Manager,2024-07-30,Open
RISK-TIME-001,Timeline,"Underestimation of the complexity of integrating with external services (e.g., for fetching Player Names) leads to unforeseen work and schedule slips.",3,3,9,Medium,"WI-4012","The SDS mentions consuming external data, but the task breakdown does not include a specific work item for this integration, hiding the potential complexity of handling API contracts, authentication, and error cases.","Create a dedicated spike/task to investigate the external Player Service API early. Define a clear API contract (e.g., using OpenAPI spec) and develop against a mocked version of the external service until the real one is available.",If the integration is more complex than expected, initially launch the leaderboard feature with just `playerId`s and add player names in a subsequent release. This de-risks the initial launch.",The development of `WI-4012` stalls while waiting for details or access to the external player service. The external service is found to be unreliable or slow during testing.,Tech Lead,2024-08-25,Open
RISK-OPER-001,Operational,"The `CLIENT_SECRET` or other sensitive credentials (database URI) are mishandled and accidentally exposed in logs, source code, or CI/CD pipeline outputs.",2,5,10,Medium,"WI-1021, WI-3012, WI-7013","Relying on `.env` files or basic environment variables without a proper secrets management solution. Lack of automated scanning for secrets in code.",Use a dedicated secrets management tool like AWS Secrets Manager, Azure Key Vault, or HashiCorp Vault. The application should fetch secrets at runtime. Implement a pre-commit hook and a CI step to scan for hardcoded secrets (e.g., using `trufflehog` or `git-secrets`).","If a secret is exposed, immediately revoke it and issue a new one. Trigger a full security audit of the codebase and CI/CD logs to determine the extent of the exposure. Force rotate all related credentials.",A secret is found during a code review or by a security scanner. A security incident is reported due to an exposed credential.,DevOps Engineer,2024-08-01,Open
RISK-TECH-004,Technical,"The compound index for ranking in the `scores` collection is not optimal or is missing, causing severe performance degradation for leaderboard reads under load.",2,4,8,Medium,"WI-2021, WI-2023, WI-4012","Incorrect field order in the compound index or a new query pattern is introduced without adding a supporting index.","Double-check that the index order (`leaderboardId`, `scoreValue`, `tieBreakerValue`, `submittedAt`) matches the query's sort and filter criteria. Use database monitoring tools to actively look for slow queries or full collection scans. Establish a process for reviewing new queries for indexing needs.",If a performance issue is found in production, immediately create the necessary index. Note that creating an index on a large collection can be a blocking operation, so it may need to be done during a low-traffic maintenance window.",The leaderboard retrieval API (`GET /leaderboards/:id`) becomes progressively slower as more scores are added. Database CPU usage spikes during these requests.,DBA / Tech Lead,2024-09-10,Open
RISK-EXT-001,External,"The external service for fetching player names is slow or has high latency, directly impacting the performance of the leaderboard retrieval API and creating a poor user experience.",4,3,12,Medium,"WI-4012","The leaderboard service is directly dependent on the performance and availability of another microservice it does not control.","Implement a short-lived cache (e.g., 5-10 minutes) for player name lookups to reduce repeated calls for the same player. Implement aggressive timeouts and a circuit breaker pattern for the external API call.",If the external service is down or slow, the leaderboard response should gracefully degrade, returning the data with `playerId` instead of names (or with `playerName: null`). The API response should not fail entirely.",The P95 latency for the leaderboard retrieval endpoint is high, and APM tracing shows that the majority of the time is spent on the external call to the player service. The external service's error rate increases.,Tech Lead,2024-09-15,Open
RISK-QUAL-002,Quality,"The cheat detection logic, while functional, produces too many false positives, flagging legitimate players as suspicious and causing user frustration and support overhead.",2,3,6,Low,"WI-3012, WI-3013","The heuristics for anomaly detection (e.g., score thresholds) are too aggressive or don't account for legitimate edge cases in gameplay.",Instead of immediately rejecting a suspicious score, flag it in the database (`isSuspicious: true`) but exclude it from the main leaderboard view. Create a separate admin dashboard to review flagged scores, allowing for manual verification and adjustment of heuristics.",If a high number of false positives is reported, temporarily loosen the most aggressive rule (e.g., increase the max score threshold). Prioritize developing better, more nuanced detection rules based on analysis of the flagged scores.",A significant increase in customer support tickets related to players complaining their high scores are not appearing on the leaderboard.",Product Manager,2024-09-20,Open
RISK-OPER-002,Operational,"The production Docker image is not scanned for vulnerabilities, and the base image (`node:18-alpine`) becomes outdated, exposing the service to known security exploits.",4,4,16,High,"WI-7011, WI-7013","Lack of an automated security scanning step in the CI/CD pipeline for container images.","Integrate a container scanning tool (e.g., Snyk, Trivy, AWS ECR Scan) into the CI pipeline. The pipeline should fail the build if critical or high-severity vulnerabilities are found. Schedule a regular task to rebuild and redeploy the service with the latest patched base image.",If a critical vulnerability is discovered in the running production image, immediately trigger a pipeline run with a patched base image and deploy the new version as a high-priority hotfix.",A security audit or an automated scanner report shows known CVEs in the application's dependencies or the Docker base image.",DevOps Engineer,2024-08-30,Open
RISK-TIME-002,Timeline,"The high number of high-complexity tasks (`WI-2023`, `WI-3012`, `WI-4012`, `WI-6021`, `WI-6022`, `WI-7013`) creates a significant risk of timeline slippage, as any single task taking longer than estimated impacts the critical path.",4,3,12,Medium,"EPIC-200, EPIC-300, EPIC-400, EPIC-600, EPIC-700","Multiple complex, interdependent tasks are scheduled, and estimation for such tasks is inherently uncertain.","Break down the high-complexity work items into smaller, more manageable sub-tasks. Attempt to parallelize work where possible (e.g., start API DTO and controller work while repository is in progress by using a mocked repository). Prioritize the absolute core path (submit/get score) before less critical features like `getPlayerRank`.",If delays occur, engage in a re-planning session to identify features that can be moved to a 'Phase 2' release to ensure the core functionality is delivered on time. Scope reduction is the primary contingency.",The project's burndown chart shows a consistent lag behind the ideal line. Multiple high-complexity tasks are still 'In Progress' past their estimated completion dates.,Project Manager,2024-08-01,Open
"risks_id","risk_category","risk_description","probability","impact","risk_score","priority_level","affected_tasks","root_cause","mitigation_strategy","contingency_plan","monitoring_trigger","owner","due_date","status"
RISK-TECH-005,Technical,"The Redis 'wildcard deletion' for cache invalidation, if implemented with the `KEYS` command, will block the single-threaded Redis server and cause major performance issues in production.",4,4,16,High,"WI-5012, WI-3013","Using the `KEYS` command in a production environment is a known Redis anti-pattern, but it's a tempting shortcut for wildcard deletion.","Strictly forbid the use of `KEYS` in production code. Use the versioning strategy described in RISK-TECH-003, or if pattern deletion is absolutely required, implement a solution using `SCAN` in a background job to iterate through keys without blocking. This should be a last resort.","If `KEYS` is found to be causing performance issues, immediately deploy a hotfix to replace it with a more targeted `DEL` command for the specific keys that need invalidation, even if it's less comprehensive. Then, prioritize implementing the proper versioning strategy.",Redis latency metrics (e.g., in AWS ElastiCache) show sudden spikes. Application logs show timeouts when trying to connect to Redis, especially after score submissions.,Tech Lead,2024-08-22,Open
RISK-OPER-003,Operational,"The graceful shutdown mechanism is not implemented correctly or is not given enough time to complete by the container orchestrator, leading to abrupt terminations that could corrupt data or lose in-flight requests.",3,3,9,Medium,"WI-5015","Forgetting to close database/cache connections in the shutdown handler, or the orchestrator's `terminationGracePeriodSeconds` being shorter than the time needed to gracefully shut down.","Implement listeners for `SIGINT` and `SIGTERM`. The handler should first stop the server from accepting new requests, then close database and cache connections, and finally exit the process. Test this behavior locally. Configure the container orchestrator's grace period to a reasonable value (e.g., 30 seconds).","If data corruption or errors are observed after deployments, analyze the logs for abrupt shutdown messages. Temporarily increase the termination grace period to a very high value while debugging the shutdown logic.",Logs show the process exiting without the 'Graceful shutdown complete' message. Metrics show a spike in errors during a rolling deployment.,DevOps Engineer,2024-09-05,Open
RISK-QUAL-003,Quality,"Unit tests for use case handlers are not effective because they use overly simplistic mocks that don't accurately represent the behavior of the real dependencies (e.g., repository throwing a specific database error).",3,3,9,Medium,"WI-6012","Mocks are configured to only return expected data ('happy path'), failing to simulate error conditions, empty results, or unexpected data formats from dependencies.","When testing handlers, ensure mocks are configured to simulate a variety of scenarios: successful data return, returning `null` or an empty array, and throwing specific types of errors (e.g., a simulated 'duplicate key' error from the repository).","If a bug is found in production that should have been caught by unit tests, conduct a review of the testing strategy for that module. Add a new test case that specifically reproduces the bug to prevent regressions.",A bug occurs in production due to a condition (e.g., the repository returning null) that was not covered in the handler's unit tests, even though code coverage for the handler was high.,QA Lead,2024-09-12,Open