risk_id,risk_category,risk_description,probability,impact,risk_score,priority_level,affected_tasks,root_cause,mitigation_strategy,contingency_plan,monitoring_trigger,owner,due_date,status
RISK-001,Technical,"The ""fire-and-forget"" async processing, while good for client latency, can lead to a backlog of unresolved promises or overwhelm the database `insertMany` operation during sustained high-volume bursts, causing high memory usage or database connection pool exhaustion.",4,4,16,High,"WI-008, WI-012, WI-014",The architecture prioritizes client response time over back-pressure handling. Load testing is not an explicit task.,Implement a dedicated message queue (e.g., AWS SQS) to act as a buffer between the API and the database writer. Perform and automate load testing as part of the CI/CD pipeline to identify bottlenecks before production.,Perform a rolling restart of service instances. If the database is the bottleneck, temporarily scale up database resources. Analyze logs to identify the source of the traffic spike.,"API response latency (p99) exceeds 500ms. CPU or Memory utilization of service instances exceeds 80% for 5+ minutes. MongoDB query latency for `insertMany` exceeds 1s.",Tech Lead,2024-09-15,Open
RISK-002,Quality,"Using `insertMany` with the `{ ordered: false }` option allows valid events in a batch to be inserted even if others fail. Without robust logging and alerting on the errors returned by this operation, failed events will be silently dropped, leading to incomplete analytics data.",3,4,12,Medium,"WI-008, WI-017",The `ordered: false` option is a performance optimization whose failure mode (returning an error with details of failed inserts) is easy to overlook or handle improperly.,"In the `MongoAnalyticsEventRepository`, the catch block for `insertMany` must be enhanced to inspect the error object for `writeErrors`, log the count and reason for failed documents, and push these metrics to a monitoring system.",Implement a dead-letter queue (DLQ) mechanism. When an `insertMany` call fails for some documents, the failed documents are pushed to a separate collection for later inspection and reprocessing.,"A monitoring alert fires when the 'partial_batch_insertion_failures' metric is > 0. A dashboard widget tracking this metric shows a non-zero value.",Dev Team,2024-09-01,Open
RISK-003,Technical,"Project dependencies (e.g., Express, Mongoose) may have known or future security vulnerabilities that could be exploited, leading to a data breach or service compromise.",3,5,15,High,"WI-001, WI-019",Reliance on third-party open-source software introduces external security risks that are not controlled by the internal team.,Integrate automated vulnerability scanning into the CI pipeline using tools like `npm audit --audit-level=high` or Snyk. Establish a regular schedule (e.g., weekly) for reviewing and patching dependencies.,If a critical vulnerability is found in production, execute an emergency patching plan. This includes forking and patching a dependency if a fix is not available, or disabling a feature if necessary, followed by an immediate deployment.,"CI pipeline fails due to `npm audit` finding a critical vulnerability. A Snyk/Dependabot alert is received.",Security Lead,2024-08-30,Open
RISK-004,Operational,An incorrect environment variable (e.g., wrong MONGO_URI) could be deployed to production, causing the service to fail to start, connect to the wrong database, or be functionally impaired.,2,5,10,Medium,"WI-003, WI-014, WI-019",Manual management of environment variables across different environments (dev, staging, prod) is error-prone.,Use a centralized and audited configuration management system (e.g., AWS Parameter Store, HashiCorp Vault). Implement a 'smoke test' endpoint that the deployment process can call to verify basic configuration (like DB connectivity) before shifting traffic.,Have a documented and practiced rollback procedure in the CI/CD pipeline to immediately revert to the last known good deployment. Ensure startup logs clearly state which configuration is being used.,"Deployment pipeline fails at the smoke test step. Application logs show configuration validation failures on startup. High rate of 5xx errors immediately following a deployment.",DevOps Lead,2024-09-20,Open
RISK-005,Quality,"Unit and integration tests may achieve high code coverage metrics but fail to test critical edge cases (e.g., max payload size, malformed but structurally valid DTOs, race conditions), leading to bugs in production.",3,3,9,Medium,"WI-016, WI-017",Focusing on line/branch coverage instead of business logic paths and failure scenarios. Time pressure leading to ""happy path"" only testing.","Enforce a peer review process for test code with a specific checklist for edge cases (null inputs, empty arrays, max values, error paths). Introduce property-based testing for the DTO validation to check a wider range of inputs automatically.",Maintain comprehensive logging to capture the state when an unexpected error occurs. Have a clear process for writing a regression test that reproduces the production bug before fixing the bug itself.,"Bugs are reported in production for scenarios that should have been covered by tests. Code coverage drops below the agreed-upon threshold (e.g., 80%).",QA Lead,2024-09-10,Open
RISK-006,Timeline,"There is a high risk that stakeholders will request the optional Geo-IP feature late in the development cycle without a corresponding adjustment to the timeline, causing rushed implementation and project delays.",4,3,12,Medium,WI-010,"Ambiguity in requirements (""Optional for enrichment"") and potential for stakeholder pressure.",Formally document the Geo-IP functionality as 'out of scope' for the initial release and create a separate backlog item for it with a proper estimate. Use this to trigger a formal change control process if the feature is requested.,If forced to implement quickly, use a simple third-party Geo-IP service and ensure the implementation is behind a feature flag that can be disabled if it causes issues.,"A stakeholder formally or informally requests the Geo-IP feature to be included in the current release. The `geoIpService` is un-commented in the codebase.",Project Manager,2024-08-20,Open
RISK-007,Technical,"Initial database indexes may not be optimal for actual analytical query patterns that emerge post-launch, leading to slow queries and high database CPU usage.",3,3,9,Medium,WI-007,Indexing strategy is based on assumptions made during design, not on real-world query performance data.,Collaborate with the data analysis team to understand likely query patterns. After launch, use MongoDB's query profiler or a monitoring tool to identify slow queries and recommend optimal indexes.,Have a process for adding or modifying indexes in a live production database with minimal impact, such as building the index in the background on a secondary replica first.,"Alerts on slow database queries (>1s). Reports from the data team about poor dashboard performance. MongoDB Atlas Performance Advisor suggests a new index.",Tech Lead,2024-10-01,Open
RISK-008,Operational,The CI/CD pipeline becomes a bottleneck if it's slow or unreliable (flaky), discouraging developers and reducing confidence in automated processes.,3,3,9,Medium,"WI-019, WI-015, WI-017",Inefficient pipeline steps (e.g., not caching dependencies), non-deterministic tests, or insufficient runner resources.,Optimize the CI pipeline by caching `node_modules`. Run faster jobs (lint, unit tests) before slower ones (integration tests). Regularly review and refactor flaky tests.,Document a manual process for testing and deployment that can be used if the CI system is down. Assign a clear owner for pipeline health who is responsible for fixing issues.,"CI build time consistently exceeds a threshold (e.g., 15 minutes). The same test fails intermittently without code changes. Developers begin to ignore pipeline failures.",DevOps Lead,2024-09-25,Open
RISK-009,Resource,Key skills for a specific technology in the stack (e.g., advanced Mongoose optimization, Zod, Pino) might be concentrated in one developer, creating a bottleneck and a risk if that person becomes unavailable.,2,4,8,Medium,"EPIC-001, EPIC-002, EPIC-003, EPIC-004, EPIC-005",Lack of cross-training and knowledge sharing within the development team.,Promote pair programming on complex tasks. Mandate internal documentation for complex or non-obvious implementations. Schedule regular (e.g., bi-weekly) knowledge-sharing sessions where developers present their work.,Prioritize external a-la-carte training for team members in critical skill areas. Allocate budget for an external consultant on short notice if the key person is unavailable for an extended period.,"Only one developer is making commits to a specific area of the codebase (e.g., all infrastructure code). A developer is the only person who can answer questions about a module.",Tech Lead,2024-09-01,Open