risk_id,risk_category,risk_description,probability,impact,risk_score,priority_level,affected_tasks,root_cause,mitigation_strategy,contingency_plan,monitoring_trigger,owner,due_date,status
RISK-001,Technical,Complex Mongoose schemas with multiple references and nested objects lead to data integrity issues or runtime errors.,4,3,12,Medium,"WI-2012, WI-2014, WI-3012",The high complexity of the Level and Catalog models makes it easy to introduce errors in schema definition, validation rules, or data population logic.,Implement comprehensive unit tests for each Mongoose model, specifically testing validation rules and references. Create a data seeding script to populate the development database with valid, complex examples.,Allocate dedicated debugging time for data-related issues in the sprint following deployment. Prepare data migration scripts to correct any malformed data discovered in production.,Model validation unit tests fail. Application logs show persistent Mongoose validation errors during integration testing.,Tech Lead,2024-08-30,Open
RISK-002,Technical,Inefficient database queries or missing indexes cause poor API performance under load.,4,4,16,High,"WI-3012, WI-4012, WI-5013",Failure to define necessary database indexes on Mongoose schemas or writing suboptimal queries in repositories, especially for endpoints that fetch lists of data (e.g., levels by zone).,"Define and implement all required database indexes (e.g., compound indexes on {zoneId, levelNumber}) directly in the Mongoose schemas. Conduct peer reviews focused on query efficiency. Use Mongoose's `.explain()` method during development to analyze query plans.",Implement a caching layer (e.g., Redis) for frequently-read, static data like the content catalogs. Allocate engineering time for performance optimization and query refactoring if latency thresholds are breached post-launch.,API response times for key endpoints exceed 250ms during load testing. Database monitoring shows high CPU usage or a high ratio of scanned documents to returned documents.,Tech Lead,2024-09-15,Open
RISK-003,Timeline,The effort required for writing comprehensive and stable tests is underestimated, delaying project completion.,5,3,15,High,"EPIC-500, WI-5012, WI-5013","The complexity of setting up the test environment (in-memory DB), mocking dependencies, and managing test data is often greater than anticipated, leading to inaccurate time estimates.",Allocate a specific percentage of time (e.g., 25%) for writing tests within each feature development task, rather than as a separate phase. Develop reusable test setup and teardown helpers early in the project (as part of WI-5011).,Prioritize integration tests for critical API paths and accept lower unit test coverage for non-critical helper functions, creating tech debt tickets to address the gap later. Allocate a buffer in the project schedule specifically for testing and bug fixing cycles.,The time taken to complete testing tasks consistently exceeds estimates by over 30%. Test coverage metrics fall below the agreed target (e.g., 80%) for two consecutive sprints.,Project Manager,2024-09-30,Open
RISK-004,Resource,A key person dependency on a single developer with deep Mongoose/MongoDB expertise creates a bottleneck.,3,4,12,Medium,"EPIC-200, EPIC-300",If only one team member is proficient with the data layer, their unavailability or workload can stall all backend development which is highly data-centric.,Mandate pair programming for the implementation of the most complex schemas (WI-2012) and repositories (WI-3012). Conduct internal knowledge-sharing sessions on Mongoose best practices and the project's specific data architecture.,Identify and pre-vet external MongoDB/Mongoose consultants. Allocate a budget for emergency consultation if the primary developer becomes unavailable for an extended period.,The primary data-layer developer is on unplanned leave for more than 2 days. Questions related to the data layer go unanswered for more than one business day.,Team Lead,2024-08-20,Open
RISK-005,Quality,API documentation becomes outdated or inaccurate as code evolves, causing friction with the client development team.,4,3,12,Medium,"WI-6013, WS-402",Manual processes for updating documentation mean developers can easily forget to update annotations or spec files after modifying an endpoint, leading to a mismatch between the spec and the implementation.,Implement the OpenAPI generation tool early in the project. Add a CI check that fails the build if it detects changes in controller/route files without corresponding changes to the API documentation source (e.g., JSDoc comments).,Schedule a mandatory 'documentation blitz' before each major release, where the entire team reviews and corrects the live API documentation against the current codebase.,A manual audit reveals more than two endpoints are undocumented or incorrectly documented. The client team reports a discrepancy between the API spec and its real behavior.,Dev Team,2024-09-20,Open
RISK-006,Operational,Incorrect Dockerfile or CI configuration leads to deployment failures or inefficient/insecure container images.,3,4,12,Medium,"WI-6011, WI-6012",Lack of expertise in Docker best practices (multi-stage builds, non-root users, layer caching) or CI/CD YAML syntax can lead to a fragile, slow, or vulnerable deployment pipeline.,Use a well-established, official Node.js multi-stage build template. Integrate a container vulnerability scanner (e.g., Snyk, Trivy) into the CI pipeline to automatically check the built image for known security issues.,Maintain a simpler, single-stage Dockerfile as a fallback for emergency deployments. Schedule a review session with a DevOps specialist to audit and harden the final Dockerfile and CI pipeline before the first production deployment.,The CI pipeline's build or deploy step fails for reasons other than code/test failures. The final Docker image size exceeds 500MB. The security scanner reports new high or critical vulnerabilities.,DevOps/Tech Lead,2024-09-25,Open
RISK-007,Technical,"Inconsistent mapping between internal Mongoose models and public-facing DTOs leads to API contract violations, breaking the client.",4,3,12,Medium,"WI-4011, WI-4012, WI-5013",The manual process of converting Mongoose documents to DTOs is error-prone. A developer might add a field to a model but forget to add it to the DTO, or vice-versa, breaking the API's contract.,Enforce a strict code review checklist item: ""Any change to a domain model must be reflected in its corresponding DTOs and service mappings"". Implement API contract testing using the generated OpenAPI spec to automatically verify that live API responses match the documentation.,Implement strict API versioning in the URL from the start (e.g., /api/v1/). If a breaking change is accidentally introduced, a new version can be deployed while the old one is maintained for a deprecation period.,Integration tests that validate the exact structure of API responses (WI-5013) begin to fail. The client team reports receiving unexpected or missing fields in API responses.,Dev Team,2024-09-10,Open
RISK-008,External,A minor or patch update in a critical dependency (e.g., Express, Mongoose) introduces a subtle breaking change or bug.,2,5,10,Medium,WI-1011,"The use of semantic versioning with carat (^) in package.json can automatically pull in new minor versions of dependencies during a fresh install, which, while rare, can contain breaking changes.",Commit the `package-lock.json` file to the repository to ensure all developers and CI environments use the exact same dependency versions. Use a bot like Dependabot to create pull requests for dependency updates, which are then vetted by the CI test suite before merging.,Maintain a changelog of dependency updates. If a critical, unexplained bug appears after updating dependencies, use the version control history of `package-lock.json` to quickly identify and revert the problematic package update.,The CI build starts failing after a dependency update PR is merged. Unexplained runtime errors appear in the application immediately following a fresh `npm install` in any environment.,Tech Lead,2024-08-15,Open