risk_id,risk_category,risk_description,probability,impact,risk_score,priority_level,affected_tasks,root_cause,mitigation_strategy,contingency_plan,monitoring_trigger,owner,due_date,status
R-001,Technical,"The JWT verification middleware in `auth.middleware.ts` has a logical flaw (e.g., not checking expiration, mishandling JWKS key rotation), leading to a major security vulnerability allowing unauthorized access.",3,5,15,High,"WI-401, WI-302",High complexity of security-critical code and potential developer inexperience with the `jose` library or JWKS standards.,Implement mandatory peer code review for all security-related code. Write comprehensive unit tests for the auth middleware covering valid, invalid, expired, tampered, and missing tokens.,Immediately disable affected routes or roll back the gateway to a previous secure version. Publish a new version with the fix and rotate any compromised secrets.,Unusual spike in successful authorizations from a single IP or user. Post-incident security audit finding.,Tech Lead,,Open
R-002,Operational,"A downstream microservice or the external JWKS endpoint becomes unavailable, causing the API Gateway to return 5xx errors for a large portion of its routes, leading to a major service outage.",4,4,16,High,"WI-301, WI-302, WI-401",The API Gateway pattern creates a single point of failure that is highly dependent on the health of its downstream dependencies.,Implement proper timeouts and a circuit breaker pattern in the proxy middleware to quickly fail requests to an unhealthy service. Ensure the JWKS client has robust caching enabled.,Have operational runbooks to quickly identify the failing downstream service. If possible, enable a 'maintenance mode' for the affected routes at the gateway level, returning a 503 Service Unavailable.,Spike in 502 (Bad Gateway), 503 (Service Unavailable), or 504 (Gateway Timeout) HTTP status codes in gateway logs.,DevOps Team,,Open
R-003,Timeline,"The estimated effort for implementing the JWT authentication (WI-401) and the dynamic proxy middleware (WI-301) is too low, leading to schedule delays as they are on the critical path.",3,3,9,Medium,"WI-301, WI-401",Inexperience with the specific libraries (`jose`, `express-http-proxy`) or the nuances of implementing a robust API Gateway from scratch.,Allocate time for a proof-of-concept (PoC) or spike task for both the auth and proxy middleware before committing to the full implementation. Ensure the developer assigned has time budgeted for research.,Re-prioritize other, non-dependent tasks to be worked on in parallel. If delay is significant, simplify the initial implementation (e.g., static secret instead of JWKS) and create a tech debt ticket to upgrade later.,Work item progress tracking shows it is falling behind schedule after 50% of the allocated time has passed.,Project Manager,,Open
R-004,Technical,"Under high load, the single-threaded nature of Node.js combined with inefficient middleware causes the API Gateway to become a performance bottleneck with high latency.",3,4,12,Medium,"WI-104, WI-202, WI-301, WI-401",Inefficient middleware implementation (e.g., synchronous I/O), blocking operations in the event loop, or insufficient horizontal scaling.,Ensure all custom middleware is fully asynchronous. Use Node.js Cluster module or PM2 to utilize multiple CPU cores. Plan for horizontal scaling from the start and conduct load testing as part of QA.,Horizontally scale the number of gateway container instances. If a specific middleware is the bottleneck, profile the application to find hot spots and deploy a targeted fix.,P95/P99 latency metrics for the gateway cross a predefined threshold (e.g., >200ms). CPU utilization on gateway instances is consistently high (>80%).,Tech Lead,,Open
R-005,Operational,"Incorrect or missing environment variables are provided to the container at runtime, leading to application startup failure or runtime errors that are hard to debug.",4,3,12,Medium,"WI-103, WI-601",Manual configuration management processes for different environments (dev, staging, prod) are error-prone.,The startup validation in `src/config/index.ts` is the primary mitigation. Store environment-specific configurations in a secure, version-controlled system (e.g., AWS Parameter Store, Vault) and automate injection in the CI/CD pipeline.,The application will fail to start due to the built-in validation, causing the deployment to fail safely. The operations team must correct the configuration and re-run the deployment.,Deployment pipeline fails during startup. Application logs show a fatal error on startup related to missing configuration.,DevOps Team,,Open
R-006,Quality,"A security vulnerability is discovered in a third-party npm dependency, exposing the API Gateway to a known exploit.",4,4,16,High,WI-101,Reliance on a large number of open-source packages, each with its own potential for security flaws.,Integrate automated vulnerability scanning into the CI/CD pipeline using `npm audit` or Snyk. Establish a policy for regularly reviewing and updating dependencies.,Upon notification of a critical vulnerability, immediately create a task to update the affected package. Test the update in a staging environment before deploying to production.,Alert from an automated vulnerability scanner (e.g., GitHub Dependabot). Public disclosure of a vulnerability in a used package.,Dev Team,,Open
R-007,Technical,"The proxy middleware fails to correctly propagate the user context in the `x-user-context` header, causing downstream services to fail authorization or misattribute actions.",3,3,9,Medium,"WI-301, WI-401",A logic error in the custom `proxyReqOptDecorator` function or a mismatch in the expected header format by downstream services.,Define a clear, versioned contract for the `x-user-context` header. Implement integration tests that verify the header is correctly received by a mock downstream service.,Deploy a hotfix to the gateway to correct the header propagation logic. Downstream services may need a temporary patch to handle requests without the context header gracefully.,Spike in 4xx or 5xx errors from downstream services. Logs in downstream services indicate a missing or malformed `x-user-context` header.,Tech Lead,,Open
R-008,Quality,"API documentation (Swagger) becomes outdated or inaccurate because developers change route logic without updating the corresponding JSDoc annotations.",4,2,8,Medium,"WI-502, WI-302",The manual process of updating documentation comments is often forgotten during development.,Establish a pull request checklist that explicitly includes verifying that JSDoc comments are updated for any changed routes. Treat documentation as part of the 'definition of done' for a task.,Periodically hold a 'documentation fixit' to review and update all API documentation to match the current implementation.,A downstream team or API consumer reports a discrepancy between the documentation and the API's actual behavior.,Dev Team,,Open
R-009,Technical,"The middleware pipeline in `app.ts` is configured in the wrong order, leading to security or functional issues (e.g., rate limiter placed after the main router).",2,4,8,Medium,WI-202,"Lack of understanding of the sequential nature of Express middleware, where order is critical for security and functionality.",Implement a clear comment block in `app.ts` explaining the rationale for the middleware order. Include this as a specific item to check during code reviews. Write an integration test that confirms a globally-applied middleware runs before a route-specific one.,Reorder the middleware in `app.ts` and deploy a hotfix. Review all middleware to ensure no other ordering issues exist.,A security scan reveals that a security middleware like Helmet or CORS is not being applied to all endpoints. A bug is reported where rate limiting is not affecting certain routes.,Tech Lead,,Open
R-010,Operational,"The graceful shutdown logic is implemented incorrectly, causing it to terminate active connections prematurely during a deployment or restart, leading to failed requests for users.",3,3,9,Medium,WI-203,Complexity of correctly handling `SIGTERM`/`SIGINT` signals and managing the server and process lifecycle in Node.js.,Use a well-vetted library like `http-terminator` to manage graceful shutdowns. Test the shutdown behavior as part of the E2E test suite by sending a `SIGINT` to the running process.,Roll back to a previous version if the issue is critical. Manually drain connections at the load balancer level before restarting the service as a temporary measure.,Spike of 502 errors in the load balancer logs during deployment rollouts. User reports of requests failing specifically during deployment windows.,DevOps Team,,Open
R-011,Infrastructure,"The multi-stage Dockerfile is configured improperly, resulting in a bloated or insecure production image containing unnecessary build tools, source code, or development dependencies.",3,3,9,Medium,WI-601,Inexperience with Docker multi-stage build patterns and proper use of `.dockerignore`.,Follow established best practices for Node.js multi-stage builds. Use a linter for Dockerfiles (e.g., Hadolint) in the CI pipeline. Manually inspect the final image layers to ensure it only contains production artifacts.,Rebuild and push a corrected image. If a vulnerability is found in the bloated image, treat it as a security incident and investigate potential impact.,The final Docker image size is unexpectedly large (e.g., >500MB). A security scan of the container image reveals the presence of source code (`.ts` files) or development dependencies.,Dev Team,,Open